Abandon (Complete Abandon): (See 216, in text) recklessness, wildness, carelessness, irresponsibility; OR as a verb, desert, leave, forsake, vacate, disown\nAberrant: (See also, 101 in text, bold: aberrant):  abnormal, unusual, deviant, peculiar, irregular, anomalous. Not normal or even in the range of normal or expected. \nAbhorred: hated, detested, reviled, loathed, despised, deplored. \nAbrupt: (See 227, 472, in text) sudden, unexpected, unforeseen, hasty, rushed\nAbsence: lack of presence, discretion, deficiency. \nAbsent: (454, See 513, in text): ): List three synonyms of the word “absent”: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nAbsent: not present, inattentive, lacking or without. \nAbsorption: (See 392, 592, 794, in text) integration, appropriation, inclusion, concentration, or to be completely immersed of preoccupied with: preoccupied, engrossed, engaged, captivated, gripped by, intensely interested in. EXAMPLE: John was so absorbed in his vocabulary work that no one could get his attention or distract him, even to eat.  \nAbstract\nAbstruse: (See 126, in text) obscure, perplexing, complex, profound, puzzling. EXAMPLE: It would seem an abstruse science that attributes to chance events that occur with 100% certainty under specific conditions. \nAbundant: (See, 70, 71, 468, 1062, 1438, in text) copious, rich, profuse, plentiful, bounteous\nAcademia: the world of scholars and university/college education: a place where educated, often erudite individuals study and teach.  It is basically college and graduate school, and the world of thought, publishing and ideas associated with college and graduate school.  Often academia is contrasted to the practical world, pragmatic, or the “real world.” \nAcademy: school, college, university, institute\nAcclimated  to \nAcclimated to\nAccolades: honors, awards, titles, prizes, tributes, praises\nAccommodations: Describe accommodations you have had to make for someone else’s idiosyncrasies.  Where the accommodations sufficient for the person you were accommodating?  Did the accommodations annoy, frustrate or inconvenience you? .\nAcculturated: to become accustomed to a society, its values, customs, moral and social conventions. Synonyms: assimilated (assimilated is far stronger than acculturated; assimilation implies one can never return to his original culture); acclimated. \nAcculturation: the process of absorbing, assimilating (embracing and integrating), or adapting to, a new culture or group; \nAccused\nAccustomed to\nAccustomed to: used to, familiar, habituated, adapted, ≈ inured. (See, in text, 85, 160.) \nAccustomed: (685, directly above): List 3 synonyms for accustomed: (1) , (2) , and (3) .  Name something you have become accustomed to which you never believed you would have gotten used to and describe the circumstances around becoming accustomed to that “thing” if you feel so inclined (are comfortable talking about it):  .\nAccustomed: (See, 692, 685): Tell us why you should never become accustomed to doing shoddy, half-hearted, “check-the-box-so-some-one-can-give-me-credit,-even-though-I-don’t-deserve-it” work.  In other word, in what way does becoming accustomed to mediocrity derogate your intellect, compound any deficits you may have regarding your personal skills, and foster  a reputation for sloppy incompetence so reprehensible that such a reputation could never be impugned in professional or academic circles for it is beneath impugning. (Pssst… You were just insulted with dry humor.  Not really funny.  You made it to 763, you have worked your butt off. Good Job!!!)\nAcerbic (2) You define it. . \nAcerbic:  Write something below exhibiting your “acerbic wit”:  \nAcerbic: bitter, sharp, a biting remark. The most common usage of the word is “an acerbic wit”, which implies that a person is quick-minded and sharp-tongued, and one whose comments is barbed or cutting in nature and meant to cause harm.\nActive\nAcuity: List 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Now answer the following question: Do you feel like you are garnering a greater acuity? And, if so, do you feel a greater keenness in your vision, hearing, other senses or intellect? .\nAcuity: sharpness, keenness of mind, sight or hearing, insight, alertness, awareness. \nAdapting\nAdequate\nAdhered: followed, held to, heeded, stayed, remained\nAdmiration\nAdmire: (922, See 933, in text) Who do you admire most, and what do you respect about that person?  \nAdmirer: fan, devotee, follower, enthusiast, aficionado. \nAdmitted: acknowledged, confessed, owned up to; or, accepted into. \nAdorned (See context): (257, See 339, in text): List 3 separate synonyms for “adorned”: (1), (2), (3). Write two sentences using the word “adorned” and one synonym: .\nAdornment: decoration, embellishment, superfluous decoration, added decoration, lacking purpose; metaphorically, pointless addition to pointed or useful work or discussion.  \nAdroit: skillful, apt, able, keen, talented, dexterous, adept, deft. \nAdulation: adoration, praise, worship, admiration, veneration\nAdvance: to move or push forward or ahead; to support or propound (advocate, offer, propose, promote, forward) as a cause or belief; ahead of time or previous to as in the phrase “in advance”.\nAdvancement: progress, improvement, development, expansion. \nAdventurousness: (in text, 34, 36): daring, intrepid, brave, or bold. \nAdversity\nAdvocate: (207, See 382, 432, 489, in text): Describe the type of advocate you would like to have in court for you, and explain why his or her skills would so suit you.  .\nAdvocated: (207, 935, See 382, 432, 489, 946, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “advocated” or a form of the word: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nAdvocates: supporters, backers, campaigners, attorneys. \nAdvocating: (207, see 382, 433, 489, in text): List 5 synonyms for Advocating: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Advocating” in a sentence: .\nAesthetic: (295, 577, 1049, See 574, in text): List three (3) synonyms for aesthetic: , , .  Is asceticism a type of esthetic? . Explain why and distinguish between the words “aesthetic” and “esthetic”:  .\nAesthetic: (295, 577, See 574, in text): Define “aesthetic”: . Use “aesthetic” in a sentence:  . \nAesthetic: a set of principles defining the way in which art and architecture should be evaluated; a sensitive understanding of the techniques and underlying principles of artistic creation and beauty; a sensitivity and appreciation for the beautiful and artistic in any situation, circumstance, outcome or occurrence: How one defines beauty is his or her personal set of aesthetics.\nAesthetic: You define it.  .\nAesthetics: (295, 577, 1049, 1096, See 574, in text) Name a painter whose work has been praised for its aesthetics. What is one of that artist’s paintings that you like in particular.\nAffection: (See 41, 861 in text) fondness, friendliness, love, tenderness, endearment\nAffinity\nAfforded to: offered to, granted upon, bestowed upon, provided to; the United States Constitution affords all of us the right to enjoy Democracy and all of its incumbent liberties.\nAfloat\nAggrandize:  exaggerate, overstate, magnify, boast ≈ enlarge: making something bigger esp. in terms of wealth or power ≈ extend: increase the scope of something esp. in terms of influence or power. Self-aggrandizing is the most common usage of the word and means to make remarks in order to boast or brag about oneself, or in other words to be a braggart.\nAggrandized (7, See 880, in text): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “antithesis”: \nAggravate: (561) You define it: \nAggravate: (561, 1479): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “aggravate”: \nAggravating: annoying, irritating, exasperating, maddening, grating, vexing, irksome.\nAggregate: collected/collective, combined, cumulative, or cumulatively. In aggregate means when taken all together, cumulatively or in total.  \nAgile: (See 662, 1215, in text) nimble, supple, lithe, sprightly, swift, adroit. \nAgitated: (See 182, 585, in text) upset, perturbed, flustered, unsettled, distressed\nAgnostic\nAlacrity\nAlienation: (See 799, in text) estrangement, disaffection, isolation, separation, detachment\nAlike: similar, comparable, identical, correspondingly, interchangeable, uniform\nAlleviate: (520, See 69, 81, 522, 536, in text): What might the old man use to alleviate the pain he felt from the scorpion’s sting?  .  List three synonyms of the word “alleviate”: (1) , (2) , (3) .\nAlleviate: mitigate, mollify, palliate, assuage, ease, lighten, reduce, lessen in degree as in alleviate pain.\nAlternate\nAltruism\nAmalgam: (412, 813) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... Use “amalgam” in a sentence: \nAmalgam: (412, 813, 1131, See 1225, in text): List three (3) synonyms of the word “amalgam”: (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and “amalgam” in one sentence below: . \nAmalgam: mixture, mix, combination, fusion, blend, or blending. Amalgam implies that there is a greater blending or fusing of unrelated items.  It’s like a cookie with marshmallows, chocolate chips, white chocolate chips, nuts, fudge and regular and chocolate cookie dough—it is a mixture, but the mixture is “glued” together. \nAmalgamated: List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “Amalgamated” in a sentence: .\nAmbient: atmosphere, surroundings, climate, medium, environs: EXAMPLE: There was sufficient ambient light in the room: I did not need a lamp in order to read comfortably, without straining my eyes. \nAmbiguous (557, See 17, 18, 20, 430, 486, 1408, 1457, in text): List three synonyms of the word “ambiguous”:                (1) , (2) , (3) . Use “ambiguous” and two of its synonyms in a sentence; try to use a comma or a colon to clarify the definition of ambiguous with its synonyms:  .\nAmbiguous: confusion, unclearness.\nAmbition: drive, competitiveness, desire, want, motivation, often prideful desire or drive.\nAmbivalence: (20, 517) Many people feel ambivalent about chocolate: they love chocolate because it tastes good, but they hate chocolate because it tastes extremely good and it can be fattening when it is consumed in large quantities. Name something you have both strong positive and negative feelings for, and explain why you love and hate it.  \nAmbivalent:  having simultaneous, conflicting feelings toward a person or thing; . ; ≠ ambiguous\nAmbivalent: You define it.  .\nAmbivalently: (20, 517, 1390): List at least 3 synonyms and 1 antonyms for the word “ambivalent”: \nAmeliorate\nAmeliorate:  better, improve, make better and less negative effect. \nAmeliorated: (165, See 69, 81, 639, in text) List 5 synonyms for ameliorated: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “ameliorated” in a sentence: .\nAmorphous: formless, shapeless, nebulous, vague, indeterminate\nAmplify: (See 421, 601, 1361, 1377 in text) intensify, increase, magnify, boost, raise: EXAMPLE: Amplification of wave fronts can occur through the intentional use of constructive interference; for example, in modern touchable holography either a standing wave of sound or an amplified sound wave which uses constructive interference are combined with traditional light holograms to forma objects made of light and sound which people can actually see and touch: below are images of the amplified touchable holograms which have been in development since at least 2009.  \nAn adjective—or adjective phrase—must agree with its noun in number, must remain parallel and should not vary in form if at all possible.\nAnachronistic: originating from a different time period and out of place because it does not belong in the time in which it appears, for example an actor using a cell phone in a movie that is set in the Old West or a human in a movie about dinosaurs, which were all extinct millions of years before humans were found n Earth; outdated, old-fashioned, obsolete, archaic, outmoded, passé\nAnalogous\nAnarchist: rebel, nihilist, radical, insurgent, subversive\nAnathema: someone who is set apart or intensely disliked or loathed, outcast, one who has been excommunicated, banished, exiled, accursed, or denounced, an abhorrence; Frankenstein’s monster was an anathema, constantly being chased or assailed by people who were appalled (disgusted, revolted) by his gruesome visage (face, appearance).\nAncient: (See 159, 203, 438, in text) early, primordial, prehistoric, archaic, antiquated: \nAnd everything was going well, everything's on track,\nAnd that was to turn out their final and fatal stop.\nAnd though warned by the lame man, he plowed into a tree.\nAngering: infuriating, maddening, enraging, irritating, or, irritating. \nAnnoyance\nAntagonist: (768, See 788, in text): List 3 synonyms of “antagonist”: (1), (2), (3).  Use “antagonist” and “nemesis” (924) in a sentence or group of sentences where the nemesis and the antagonist are actually antagonistic to one another, and not the same person. \nAntagonistic: aggressive, hostile, opposed, combative, argumentative, against. \nAntarctica\nAntediluvian: (See 540, in text) ancient, outmoded, old-fashion, out of date, passé.  NOTE: “Antediluvian” is an extremely interesting.  The word originally meant before the great deluge or flood; or, before the great flood which is recorded in the religious and historic texts of the Christian, Jewish, Hindu, Babylonian, Islamic, and cultures of the Far East.  In modern parlance, antediluvian means simply really, really, really old. \nAnticipated: (See 24, in text) expected, predicted, projected, foresee, predictable\nAntipathy\nAntiquated: old, outdated, outmoded, archaic, antediluvian, obsolete.\nAntithesis: (928, 1285): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “antithesis”: \nAntithesis: opposite, contrast, reverse, converse, opposed. EXAMPLE: By the end of his life, Noah Webster even believed that his once revolutionary and secular focus in his Blueback Speller was now antithetical to the growing nation: once the revolutionary, the aged Webster found the ideas of democratic control of language, and the simple, use focused approach to grammar—a democratization of the language—antithetical, indeed an anathema to the republic he now favored.   \nAntithetical: (928) proving the opposite of what was previously thought, not corroborating with previously held beliefs.\nAppease (639, See 522, 634 in text) You can appease my fears that no one pays enough attention to the exercises in this book by using the word appease in your next Sat essay, and circling the word to bring it to my attention.\nAppease: (522, 634, in text): mollify, conciliate, pacify, placate, soothe, settle, and ameliorate. \nApplauded\nApplauded: (See 599, in text) commended, celebrated, congratulated, admired, praised\nAppraisal: assessment, evaluation, judgment, estimation, consideration. EXAMPLE: Standardized tests are not representative of students’ full potential; rather, they represent appraisals of students present knowledge base and reasoning skills.  \nAppreciate: (567, See 64, 86, 220, 295, 310, 423, 657, 708, 729, 1272, 1413, in text): Talk about something you appreciate, and would like to appreciate more if given the time. Again, send the below paragraph to your instructor if you would feel comfortable sharing: \nAppreciation: thankfulness, graciousness, recognition that one has been helped in some way.\nApprehensive: (See 377, in text) anxious, uneasy, hesitant, worried, tense, concerned. Worried something bad will happen, or that there will be more dire (really bad) or negative consequences or implications than are generally recognized or accepted.  EXAMPLE: Often times someone who is apprehensive is simply someone who sees errors, flaws or faults that are not perceived by less “visionary” individuals.  \nApproachable: (See 65, 385, 392, 623, in text) friendly, amicable, sociable, welcoming, cordial\nAppropriate: (See 258, 617, 637, 664, in text) suitable, fitting, apt, proper, applicable\nApt: (See 617, 656, 660, in text) appropriate, apropos, fitting, right, proper, deft, adroit, able, talented, adept, keen or able to learn quickly. \nAptitude: (664, 921, 1088, See 617, 656, 660, 665, 728, in text): List three (3) synonyms and (1) antonym for the word “aptitude”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).  \nAptly (664, 921, See 617, 656, 660, 665, 728, in text): List 3 synonyms of “aptly”: (1), (2), (3). Use “aptly” in a sentence:  . \nAptly: (664, See 617, 656, 660, 665, 728, in text): List 3 synonyms of “aptly”: (1), (2), (3).  Use “aptly” in three different ways in three different sentences that you write below: \nArboreal\nArchaeologists: people who study the artifacts, relics, and tools of past civilizations to learn about the activity of humans in the past. Archaeology is considered both a science and a humanity as archaeologists must have wide knowledge of history, ethnology, chemistry, physics, geology, geography, and linguistics in order to find appropriate spots to excavate and then analyze the findings correctly. Question 109 implies that Professor Hicks is correcting misconceptions forwarded by the Indiana Jones films, which show archaeology professor Henry Jones, who adopted the name Indiana in honor of his childhood dog, venturing off on dangerous solo missions to recover, among other things, the Ark of the Covenant—the legendary container of the stone tablets upon which God purportedly etched the Ten Commandments—which the Nazis have attempted to steal and use for nefarious (evil, malicious) purposes. \nArchimedes, a famous Greek inventor and mathematician, at the moment he exclaimed “Eureka!” after realizing that the mass and composition of a metal alloy could be determined through the displacement of water. As the legend goes a king suspected an unscrupulous metallurgist of substituting silver or some other cheaper metal for gold in a new crown the king had received.  Archimedes was to determine if the crown were in fact debased (possessed metals of substandard quality or value).  To do so, he used a method that required the use of a balance which had on one side a mass of pure gold equal to the mass of the crown.  When the perfectly balanced balance was then placed in water, the denser metal (the one with more gold) would sink.  If the crown and the pure gold were both of equal density, both pure gold, then changing the medium in which the balance was placed would not upset the balances balance.  According to the story, Archimedes was able to prove that the goldsmith was a charlatan by using the above described water displacement method.  This method “displaced” the goldsmith’s head from his body… The king had the unscrupulous goldsmith beheaded.  On the Picture Below: Archimedes is said to have come up with his approach to determining the density of the metal in the crown while bathing.  Archimedes was in the tub, witnessed how his body, and objects of different densities displaced different volumes of water, and was so inspired, he cried, “Eureka!” which meant “I found or discovered it!” in ancient Greek.  Repeatedly yelling, “Eureka!” legend has it that Archimedes then ran through the streets, directly to the king to test his idea.  Archimedes neglected to dress before running straight to the king.   \nArchipelago: a chain of islands, usually volcanic in nature. \nAristocracy:  nobility, peerage, elite, upper class, haut monde, gentry\nArraignment: lure word! charge, indictment, impeachment, summons, citation. NOTE: Word only occurs in a legal context. \nArrangement: list or pattern; or, a plan, procedure, agreement to proceed with a plan: EXAMPLE: We made arrangements for dinner tomorrow night, and are having a chef cook dinner for us on the beach in Mexico. (Oh, to dream the impossible dream.) \nArray: (411) Give three different definitions of “array”: \nArray: collection, assortment, selection, arrangement, or grouping.  It is more ordered, usually in an intentional manner, than a hodgepodge.  A hodgepodge is “jumbled” and array, usually is not.\nArticulate: eloquent, clear, well-spoken, lucid; to speak in a clear or lucid manner.\nArtistic: (581, See 133, 295, 316, 492, 565, 613, 616, 661, 746, 776, in text): List 3 synonyms of “artistic”: (1), (2), (3). Name three (3)  “artistic” styles: (1), (2), (3). \nArtistic: description to denote that something is related to the arts: for example, artistic integrity refers to an artist’s ability to develop his own consistent set of methods, values, techniques, and themes that will best help him achieve his own vision, without interference or distortion of his work from outside sources; skilled in a form of creative expression such as painting, music, or writing; creative, imaginative.\nAscertain\nAscetic: (209, 579; in text, 6, 176): List three synonyms and three characters from history, mythology, religion or literature who could be aptly called ascetics: Synonyms for ascetic: (1) ,                               (2) , and (3) . Three “ascetics” you can name:                                 (1) ,  (2) , and (3) . \nAscetic: You define it.  .\nAsceticism: (209, 579, 665, See, 6, 176, 694) If you took a vow to live a life of asceticism, what superfluous luxury items would you miss the most? (1) (2) (3)\nAscetics: one who chooses an austere life of self-denial; someone who accepts almost no comfort or luxury in life; a Spartan, or monk in discipline and restraint. (You have seen this word before in relation to temperance; don’t forget the connection.)\nAscribing to\nAseptic: disease-free, sterile, uninfected, germ-free, hygienic\nAspersions: slanders, lies, libels, calumnies, slurs, slights, smears, vicious epithets, falsehoods, defamation, or insults to one’s character.  \nAspirations: ambitions, goals, objectives, desires, targets: ASSIGNMENT: If you did not do the above assignment in entry 984, do it now in light of your aspirations, objectives, ambitions, goals, desires, targets, and hopes, be they visionary or otherwise. \nAspires:  hopes, desires, longs for, ambitions, wishes, hopes, drive to be more or bigger. \nAssault\nAssess: (See 76, 1009, in text) measure, evaluate, judge, estimate, consider\nAssimilated\nAssimilation: (See 85, 592, in text) integration, acclimatization, incorporate, acculturate, embrace\nAsteroid: planetoid, a rock in space that is not a moon, or planet. An asteroid is a meteor when it enters Earth’s atmosphere, and becomes a meteorite if it hits Earth proper.  \nAstringent: harsh, severe, biting, acerbic, caustic, cutting, mordant (bitingly sarcastic, or scathingly critical—I love the word, look for it), intentionally writing or speaking critically and hurtfully in tone and substance. Or, usually a liquid that brings tissue together, and burns if placed on an open wound.  \nAstronomic: (See 801, in text) huge, enormous, prodigious, monumental, colossal\nAstrophysicist\nAstute: perceptive, shrewd, possessing mental acuity \n	At that moment, a passerby saw the old man stretched out on the roots struggling with the scorpion and shouted: \nAtrophy: waste away from lack of use, wither.\nAttain: (See 362, 1006, in text) reach, achieve, accomplish, procure, acquire\nAttempt: earnest effort, try, endeavor. \nAugmented: (See 601, in text) increased, amplified, enhanced, expanded, boosted\nAura\nAustere: serious, grim, severe, ≈  ascetic or Spartan; rigid, harsh, unsmiling; plain or simple in terms of design, or comforts: Spartan \nAuthenticity: (See 618, 1334, in text) genuineness, legitimacy, validity, truth, realism\nAvian\nAvocation: (See 659, 720, in text): hobby, pastime, diversion, interest : a minor or part-time occupation; a pursuit that does not rise to the level of a profession or a vocation. Dictionary.com missuses and miss-defines this word.  Be careful. \nAvoid \nAvuncular: characteristic of an uncle, kind-hearted, genial, ≠ friendly, but avuncular conveys a closer friendship one akin to a familial bond i.e. protective or special\nAvuncular: like an uncle, friendly, helpful, good-humored.  Most people feel that Jason is avuncular, because he is always ready to lend a helping hand, cares deeply for his students, and is extremely good humored. (I should tell a “Damn Fischer Kids” story here.) You should define this word. Later in the exercises you will have to define words you have already seen.  This is a freebee.\nAwakened\nAwesome: (See 190, 789, in text) breathtaking, magnificent, stunning, impressive, amazing; possessing such grandeur, or being so impressive or overwhelming that fear and/or amazement is inspired. Awesome things make us all realize how small we are at some moments; accomplishing something awesome, however, can make each and every one of us feel like we are part of or actually can be—at least sometimes—bigger than the smallness of one life, or one moment in history.  NOTE:  I believe all of you, just the way you are now are amazing; I hope and imagine and have faith that all of you, if you put your minds to it, and work well together can be—at least in your best moments—awesome.  \nAwful: (See 365, in text) dreadful, horrific, repulsive, bad, sickening\nAwing (awe)\nAwkward: (See 21, in text) unwieldy (in context): unpleasant, uncooperative, uncomfortable, inelegant, thorny: in the extreme, oafish, klutzy, socially inept. \nBackhanded: indirect, ambiguous, oblique, equivocal, double-edged; The term comes from a slap across the face when the back side of the hand (not the palm) is used to make the contact. You see, most people are right-handed, so they would use their right hand to slap. When attempting to backhand a person, one would have to swing their hand across the body, starting from the left side and moving across to the right, as shown in the tennis swing below. In the past, anything associated with the left was considered sinister or devious. So, if a compliment was backhanded, it would mean that the remark seemed to be good (right or right handed), but was actually an insult (such as the right hand coming from the left side, as in a backhanded slap). \nBalanced: (See 1336, in text) mixed, varied, sensible, stable, pragmatic. Or, emotionally stable, even tempered or adequately distributed. \nBalderdash: nonsense, hogwash, drivel, foolishness: senseless or foolish conversation or writing: most of your texts, tweets, and most reality TV: although somehow, Bravo is hypnotizing: ( I can’t stop watching Jax and Stassie.) \nBan: (See 742, in text) prohibition, outlaw, disallow, embargo, suppress: Contextually, a ban on imported textiles—an embargo—would be a stronger protective measure than a simple excise tax.  \nBar: In legal contexts, the Bar may refer to any or all of the following: a partition in a courtroom or legislative assembly; or the legal profession, or lawyers collectively; or the exam to be licensed to practice law. \nBasal: basic, fundamental, foundational, at the base or bottom of something\nBasal: You define it. .  .\nBase (multiple meanings)\nBeautiful: (See 144, 295, 314, 724, in text) attractive, fine-looking, picturesque, lovely, scenic\nBedevilments: a continued source of problems, irritation or annoyance. Things that cause vexation. To Bedevil: badger, harass, annoy. \nBedevilments: Think of all of your poor work habits that have “bedeviled” your progress thus far and in the below pledge that you will no longer let any of those poor work habits hinder you again.  In the below, list all of your poor work habits or “attitudes”—(“attitude” here is a euphemism, and that is why I used “QUOTES” around the word: quotes around a word indicate that the author may be using the word euphemistically, metaphorically, in a different sense, as a new term, slightly incorrectly—or, correctly or incorrectly but as a quote which someone else said)—and then write: \nBedraggle: disheveled, disordered, untidy, unkempt, tousled\nBelied: Describe and act or set of actions you have performed which “belied” your true feelings or intent; then use belied in a sentence related to that act or action you took: .\nBelied: to give a false impression, show something to be false: here the key is that belied, while it does mean to contradict—sort of—it really means to be self-contradictory.  EXAMPLE: His smile belied the deep sadness he felt in his heart. \nBellicose: belligerent, pugnacious, warmongering, hawkish, scrappy\nBelligerent: aggressive, argumentative, quarrelsome, pugnacious, bellicose, truculent\nBeloved: adored, cherished, treasured, dear, favorite, darling, precious, esteemed, dearly loved.\nBemoaned: lament, complain, express dissatisfaction, gripe… starts with a B… sounds like a wicked, magical woman that rhymes with itch… sounds like witch… hmmm… \nBeneficent: (See 189, 719, in text) charitable, altruistic, generous, benevolent, philanthropic\nBeneficial: (1443, See 189, 719, in text): ): List five synonyms of the word “beneficial”: (1) , (2) , (3) , (4) , and   (5) .\nBeneficiary: (1443, 1528, See 189, 719, in text): List three (2) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “beneficiary”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).  \nBenevolent: well meaning, acting for the benefit of all, compassionate, generous, kindly, performing good, moral, often charitable acts without seeking compensation or profit.  \nBequest: either something that is passed down in a will, or the actual act of bequeathing, or giving (in a will).\nBereavement: period of mourning (showing deep sadness) following a death or loss; grieving, lamentation, remembrance.\nBerkeley: Berkley is a large public university in California across the bay from Stanford.  The school is renowned for its work in fusion, nuclear weapons manufacture, lasers, physics, linguistics and computer science.  It also has top ranked professional schools in law and medicine.  The campus is large and sprawling, urban, but often feels cramped to the 36,000 students who call Berkeley home.  (While the land owned is more than 6,500 acres, less than 180 acres are used for the main campus.) Below are the westward view of Berkeley campus, out towards the Bay and the eastward view into the Oakland Hills. \nBettering: improving, benefiting, bootstrapping: raising oneself in social position, rank, fortune, class, or rights. \nBiased\nBiased: (See 208, 312, 513, in text) prejudiced, influenced, partisan, discriminatory, skewed, slanted\nBifurcate: divide, split, break into two.  \nBilingual: multilingual, polyglot; able to speak two languages is the precise definition.  EXAMPLE: Many schools in the United States attempt to teach at least one foreign language to all public school students, yet few if any U.S. high school graduates are truly bi-lingual as a result of all of the years they have spent “learning” a foreign language. A shame… for certain.\nBillboards: advertisements, large signs on the side of the road.  Metaphorically, to advertise your intent or hang it on a billboard. \nBiotic: relating to life, organisms, organic material that is part or can be integrated into a living organism; living things can be described as biotic.  This word is difficult to use in context. EXAMPLE: The preservation of biotic diversity is one of the primary goals of many ecological movements.  \nBlind (825): Use blind as the basis of an extended metaphor, meaning: write a pair of sentences here which use blinding, light, darkness, and metaphoric lack of vision as the basis of an extended metaphor, a metaphor that extends beyond the single use and the sentence in which it is first used.  In this case, a blind extended metaphor would include someone who is lost, cannot see, blinded by greed, blinded by want, blinded to the dangers of someone he trusts, because his trust blinds him etc.  Such blindness usually leaves a person unguided, misguided, wandering, lost, grasping, fumbling, groping in the dark, or completely without vision, clear sight, normal prudence, and usually economic sense.  Certainly, the person blinded would never be “visionary.”  Write five sentences using the blind extended metaphor suggested in this paragraph:\nBlinded: sightless, metaphorically, sightless, lacking vision, groping, myopic, narrow-minded, distracted, dogmatic, partisan \nBlockade\nBlunt: (See 10, 509, in text): verbal: candid, frank, direct and offensive, open and critical. Or, dulled at an edge, lacking subtlety.  Roughhewn, coarse, unrefined. \nBodies: objects in space, in this context. \nBody of knowledge: a complete set of concepts, ideas or information related to a specific area of study.  The body of knowledge in a particular area or discipline is all that the “smart guys and girls” in a subject area happen to know.  For example, the “body of knowledge” in mathematics, generally, is ALL MATH, everyone knows, in all imaginable mathematical disciplines on Earth: this is a HUGE body of knowledge, and a very complicated one.  In contrast, the “body of knowledge” in mathematics related to the positive integers less than 2, would be a small body of knowledge, related to all the different mathematical concepts associated with the integer 1: the only positive integer less than 2.  Of import (importantly), information and knowledge related to the number 1, not represented as an integer (when represented as any of an innumerable variety of fractions or other expressions) would not likely be included in the “positive integers less than two” body of knowledge.  The point here is that a body of knowledge includes everything that is defined as part of the set of knowledge in that body, but the definition of “that body” is relatively strict.  This definition in total may be too detailed, but it is kind of a fun exercise in distinguishing/discriminating/parsing language, sets, math and words: languages.  And, parsing language or making fine distinctions is the larger point of this exercise.  (I do hope that discussion was pointed enough for you all!!! ☺ .)\nBoggy: swampy, marshy, mired. (See, in text, 673, 678 above.)\nBoldness: confidence, self-assurance, nerve, brashness, audaciousness, Chutzpah.\nBolstered: (See 856, in text) strengthened, reinforced, encouraged, augmented, fortified\nBombastic: language that is pompous, pretentious, haughty, or attempting to seem sophisticated, “fancy,” or impressive publically, when either the subject matter and speaker are not impressive (usually bombastic people are full of balderdash, poppycock, and humbuggery; they are foolish, nonsense; AND/OR bombastic people have overly inflated senses of themselves, are egocentric, and perhaps even narcissistic. They are blowhards, windbags, and braggarts who use fancy language to seem important.) \nBoon: godsend, windfall, blessing, bonus, advantage, a time of great of bounty (abundance, plenty) ≈ halcyon (the golden age, peaceful or untroubled times.\nBorders: (Homophone, check question?):  verges on, approaches, resembles, be tantamount to, come close to\nBore (to bear): as a noun, windbag, fool, blowhard, uninteresting, dull, tiresome; or, as a verb, to drill a deep hole, penetrate. Or, to present, wear, offer, furnish; or possess as a character trait or intrinsic element of one’s character. Or, to suffer through, tolerate, or “bear”. \nBored by\nBounds (No Bounds: 422; see also, 215 in text): limits, confines, boundaries, restrictions, or constraints. Use the phrase “leaps and bounds” and the phrase “beyond bounds” in the same sentence:  . \nBounds: limits, constraints, boundaries; or leaps, jumps. \nBoycott (take historical look at this one)\nBragged: (See 7, 104, 1386, in text) boasted, crowed, swanked, gloated, blustered\nBrands (branding, company towns—union pushing union brands)\nBravado: cf. braggadocio, cf. bombastic: boldness, swagger, bluster, machismo, audacity, immune\nBreathless: panting, gasping, wanting, eager, longing: breathless can take on a metaphoric meaning related to wanting and desire. \nBrevity\nBrevity: short, brief, concise, terse.\nBrief: (240, See 27, 227, 249, 251, 254, 330, 397, 500, 502, in text) Write a brief sentence using the word brief. \nBriefest: shortest, momentary, of the least duration. \nBritish Prime Minister Winston Churchill: a British politician who acted as Prime Minster from 1940 to 1945, during World War II, and again from 1951 to 1955. His refusal of an armistice, or treaty, with Germany, kept the British resistance alive, with England serving as a base for later counterattacks to stop German expansion during the war. Churchill was not only a strong wartime leader, but he was quite a polymath, both becoming an accomplished and prominent painter and a Nobel-prize winning author who was lauded for his biographies, memoirs, and histories, including the six-volume memoir, The Second World War, and the four-volume history, A History of the English-Speaking Peoples, which covers the period from Caesar’s invasion of Britain in 55 BC to the First World War, which started in 1914.\nBuddhist Monks—famous for their asceticism, self-restraint, self-denial, pacifism and altruistic sacrifice for the good of all members of their communities—are here attempting to destabilize a military junta in the war ravaged third-world nation of Myanmar (Burma).  Their efforts were officially successful in late 2011, when the military government officially relinquished control of the government. Through 2013, Myanmar has become increasingly integrated into the Southeast Asian and World Economic Communities.   \nBuffet-style: The easiest way to explain buffet-style is with a picture: \nBuild: (See 731, in text):  create, craft, erect. Or, physique, musculature, stature. \nBungling: unskilled, unprofessional, ham-fisted, awkward, untrained\nBuoyancy\nBursts: spurts, surges, rushes, gushes, torrents\nByzantine (historical note): You define it.  ,The Byzantine empire, when it returned to Muslim, Turkish control in around 1300, no longer could represent human figures in art.  As a result, artistic expression took on a geometric quality, meaning the patters in the art work and tapestry became intricate and complicated interwoven patterns.  These complex patters became known as Byzantine works of art.  As a result, any complex or intricate pattern can be called “byzantine.” \nByzantine: (261, 316, 1071, See 313, in text): Draw a byzantine design in the box below: \nByzantine: (261, 316, 1092, See 313, in text): List three things you think of as byzantine: (1), (2), (3). \nByzantine: (261, 316, See 313, in text):  List 3 synonyms of “byzantine”: (1), (2), (3). Use “byzantine” in a sentence:  . \nByzantinism (Byzantine): complex, intricate, detailed, convoluted; Or: devious, marked by scheming. \nCadets: trainees, youth in an organization, military trainee. \nCalamities: disasters, catastrophes, mishaps, extreme misfortunes, tragedies. \nCalculating\nCallow:  (967): After all of this reading, all of the words that you have learned, and all of the history that has been presented, are you still callow? . Recall, simply because you have gained knowledge does not mean that you have gained true experience of the world.  Reading about the world is one thing, living in it and experiencing the struggles related to its often turbulent conflicts is a different learning experience than any school could possibly offer. \nCallow:  naïve, innocent, inexperienced, young, immature, raw, uncultured.  EXAMPLE: A choice that some hope will be made in the coming education debate is that large swaths of the United States population will remain uncultured, callow, ignorant, and less “revolutionary.”  We at Focused just hope you all have the opportunity to gain experience and knowledge of the world at a younger age, so that you will not feel callow, long after you youth has passed. \nCallow: (967, 1140): ): List 3 synonyms and 3 antonyms for the word “callow”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6).\nCallow: (967, 1140, 1621): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “callow” :\nCampaign: (See, 1, in text): to run for office; or, actively pursue,  promote, crusade, drive, advocate, advance, stimulate, forward, boost, foster. \nCandid: (3) You define it.  ,\nCandid: forthright, sincere, honest, revealing, direct, straight-forward, see also, candor n.: the state or quality of being open or sincere in speech or also fairness, impartiality ≠ frank: direct and unreserved, but frank is more uninhibited and undisguised, even blunt at times.\nCandidacy (198, 817):  Please name a person whose candidacy you have followed:.  Please explain why you followed that individuals candidacy and why or how that person’s candidacy related to you.. If you have never followed any person’s candidacy, or any election of any kind, please describe the type of person and the type of ideas that person would have to represent in order to make you interested in a politics generally, or one candidate in specific.  Take your time answering this question. .\nCandidate:  nominee, aspirant, potential elected official. \nCandidate: (198): Name a candidate for any office in any organization and tell me the “platform” the candidate presented when he or she was running for office. (You can use NHS friends or something like that.) \nCandidly (2) You define it. .\nCantankerous: irritable, crabby, argumentative, bad-tempered, uncooperative\nCanvases: paintings, pictures, images, backgrounds, sketches\nCapacity   \nCapricious: (134, 180):   List 3 synonyms for capricious: (1) , (2) , (3) .  Now, describe the most capricious authoritarian body, institution or figure with whom you have ever come in contact —hint: a petty or unfair teacher might offer a good example:  .\nCapricious: fickle, impulsive, tending to make sudden, unexpected changes of mind, directions, path. Flip-flopping, often without a thought to the emotional damage or inconvenience such flip-flopping will cause others.  Teenagers and children are often said to be capricious. Young love is said to be capricious, or at least the word is used most often in relation to youthful romance. \nCapriciousness: You define it.  .I would look in 11 if I were you…. Name two people you know who are “capricious” or “fickle”: (1), (2).  Describe a situation that hurt your feelings when one of these two people behaved capriciously:  . \nCaptivating: (See 861, 1475, in text) attractive, appealing, charming, enchanting, hypnotizing\nCapture\nCaptured:  took, caught, seized, apprehended, netted, bagged.\nCarelessness: (See 264, in text) sloppiness, inattentiveness, inaccuracy, negligence, impetuous\nCarping: (in text, 76): harping, nagging, criticizing, haranguing, cavil, grouse, or pick on endlessly.  EXAMPLE: If your mother finds out that you could mitigate the entire cost of college by simply studying she will carp, harp, nag and harangue you endlessly to study; it is unlikely she will study with you or learn the material as well, but to each person, the pecuniary value of time, work and intellectual investment varies.   \nCastigated\nCatalyze: spark, ignite, make more efficient and proceed with greater rapidity than would be possible without the catalyst.  This is a favorite Focused Essay Writing Metaphor.  EXAMPLE: Visionary entrepreneurs like Elon Musk catalyzed a revolution in scientific technology like one never seen before: in less than 20 years, solar cities, efficient electric cars, and private space travel—futurist dreams which prognosticators predicted would not be available for hundreds of years—became commonplace. \nCautious: (30, See 31, 35, 77, 332, 955, in text) The tightrope walker below is not being very cautious. Draw a net to make him safer, or draw a shark to make the situation even more treacherous.\nCautious: careful, wary, guarded, restrained \nCelebrated\nCelebration\nCelestial: heavenly, in the sky, otherworldly, divine, cosmic, astronomic, spiritual, relating to astronomy or the universe above earth. \nCement (history, lost after the roman’s for a long period)\nChampioned: (946, 1034, See 382, 433, in text) If you were a politician, what is one cause you would champion, and why would you support that effort?  \nChampioned: (946, See 382, 433, in text): List 3 separate synonyms of “championed”: (1), (2), (3). Now, describe a cause, idea or reason you would champion and explain why:  .\nChampioned: (See 382, 433, in text): supported, promoted, campaigned, encouraged, advocated, protected. \nChaos: disorder, confusion, bedlam, pandemonium, disarray: \nCharlatan\nCharlatan: You define it.  .\nCharlatan: You define it.  .\nCharlatans: fakes, frauds, swindlers, conmen, tricksters, cons, quacks, confidence men, liars, snake-oil salesman. \nCharming (See 861, in text) delightful, amiable, pleasing, appealing, alluring, delectable\nChart: map, plan, graph, diagram.\nCherished: (See, in text, 494): beloved, valued, prized, precious, or “dear to someone.” Name something you cherish and explain why:  \nChicanery: trickery, fraud, deception, flimflam. A “flimflam” artist is a charlatan, who tries to make money by swindling and hustling people, or selling them fake products. \nChoppy\nChronological: sequential, consecutive, linear, in order, serial\nChurchill was well known for his uplifting and inspiring speeches that steeled the resolve of the embattled British; he even won over the members of Parliament who had initially opposed his appointment as Prime Minister before England entered World War II, eventually having his former detractors hanging on his every word and even cheering. Not only capable of being moving and encouraging, Churchill was also known to have a silver tongue (ability to make pithy retorts and engage in witty repartee), often uttering sarcastic, biting, and rather offensive remarks. For example, he joked, “The best argument against Democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter.” When caught falling asleep at an assembly, he was asked, “Mr. Churchill, must you fall asleep when I’m speaking?” He responded, “No, it’s purely voluntary.” And after he angered a member of the House of Commons, Lady Astor, she told him, “If I was your wife, sir, I would poison your coffee.” Churchill quickly retorted, “If I was your husband, I would drink it.”\nCinematic: photographic, movielike, filmic: having a scope, topic, grandeur, tragic quality, or subject matter which would be well suited to film.  EXAMPLE: Few lives have facts and events that could truly be called cinematic; however, the life of Sig Zane, particularly when the drama related to his father’s murder and the related intrigue are considered seems not only cinematic but almost mythic in structure and scope. \nCinnamon: Cinnamon is a spice used in both savory and sweet dishes that is harvested from the inner bark of several types of trees. In the past, cinnamon was a highly prized commodity, and was even considered a gift to be given to monarchs or even offered to gods. Curiously, there is also an urban legend that says that people who are about to suffer a stroke (when a blood clot interrupts the flow of blood to the brain) smell cinnamon or French toast shortly before they feel the effects of the blockage, which may include inability to speak, loss of memory, loss of consciousness, and paralysis. While this is most likely untrue, a stroke could possibly affect the areas of the brain responsible for recognition of smells, but it would be more likely to completely disable the sense of smell rather than cause you to smell something that is not there. Regardless, if your instructor tells you that you look like you’re smelling cinnamon, you should perk up and try to be more alert in class.\nCircumlocution: (223, See 229, in text): List 5 synonyms for circumlocution: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “circumlocution” in a sentence:  .\nCircumlocution: to talk in circles; make no sense; speak in a convoluted or confused manner; to be indirect; “beat around the bush.” \nCircumscribed: restricted, curbed, confined, bounded, constrained: NOTE: Do not confuse circumscribed with circumspect (carefully considering all options), circumlocution (talking in circles), circumnavigate (to sail or fly around something like a planet, island, continent or country) or any other word that begins with “circum-”.\nCircumspect: (See 35, 872, in text) cautious, prudent, chary, leery, guarded\nCircumstances \nCircumstances: environments, situations, positions, statuses, the factors that cumulatively have an effect on a particular situation.\nCivil rights: rights or privileges that protect citizens’ freedom from infringement (transgression, encroachment, intrusion) by governments or private organizations and ensure that citizens have the right to participate in the politics of the state (usually via democratic practices like voting) without being discriminated against for their race, religion, gender, age, or disability. Many SAT passages are written about or from the perspective of people, iconoclasts like Martin Luther King, Jr. and Rosa Parks, who were involved in the mid-twentieth century movement to secure these rights for all American citizens\nCivilian: non-military personnel or person, non-combatant, citizen, relating to uses or context that are specifically non-military.    \nCivilized: civilized, civilized, civilized, civilized, civilized\nClarity: lucidity, transparency, understandability, intelligibility; unambiguousness, precision; the quality of being see-through, transparent, diaphanous, or sheer.\nClass: type, category, grade, social level; or, a single session of an instruction which is part of a larger syllabus or course. \nClassical: of or related to antiquity: Greek or Roman philosophy, art, literature, politics, science or social point of view. Or, referring to any artistic, cultural or personal view or expression which takes its form and popularity from a period prior to the modern or contemporary period.  For example, “classical ballet” refers to ballet work that relies upon 16th and 17th century ballet for its foundational movements and artistry, but which as an art form has evolved throughout its continuation into the modern period. Similarly, classical piano refers to piano work prior to the 20th century, usually prior to the mid-1800s, but which has evolved and changed in the modern era.  \nClergy: ministry, holy order, priesthood, ecclesiastic, men/women of God\nClimate: environment, temperature: While the climate literally refers to all things related to the weather in a natural environment, any environ (just means environment) can have a climate, e.g.(for example): political climate, intellectual climate, etc.  The intellectual climate might be icy to new or visionary ideas. WARNING!: Do not cross off climate simply because the sentence does not discuss weather.  Metaphoric meanings can be used and are usually a little bit more sophisticated.  In your own writing, a little metaphoric use of words would be nice.  Try it.  You might like it! ☺\nClipped: abrupt, short, cut, brief, concise\nClutching\nCoalesced: merged spiritually and often physically; come together; combine; join; merge into a single body, one that shares all and is united physically, mentally and spiritually.  \nCoarse: (See 964, in text) rough, bristly, uneven, abrasive, stiff; or, unrefined, brutish, oafish, unmannered. \nCoexisted: lived at the same time or in the same area, cohabitated; usually implies peaceful or harmonic living; two neighboring tribes who are at war would not be said to coexist, even though they live in close proximity, because if either side had its way, the other tribe would cease to exist\nCogent\nCogent: logical, sane, well-reasoned, convincing or persuasive as an argument or evidence.\nCogent: You define it.  .\nCoherence: consistency, unity, rationality, logic, clarity, lucidity, ability to be easily understood.\nCoifed: the way someone’s hair is styled, usually close cropped with a curl in the front; or, a skullcap worn in the middle ages which fit tightly on the wearer’s head.  Such a cap could also be part of a suit of armor.  EXAMPLE: Jules’ hair appears naturally coifed into a rather stylish roaring twenties swishing front curl.  \nColleagues\nColleagues: (See 1325, in text) associates, coworkers, partners, contemporaries, teammates: EXAMPLE: In the above article on cancer’s possible role in species and perhaps even kingdom wide evolution,  Professors Davies and Lineweaver are clearly colleagues as they both have worked in a similar field and have known each other for years; however, they two men have become more than colleagues over the years, now working so closely that they are excellent teammates and well matched partners.  \nCollegiate and graduate studies: The stuff all you guys will have to go through after high school.  It’s okay fun, but you don’t learn as much as you likely should there, and its way to abstract and ego driven. I found most of it esoteric, often irrelevant, pedantic, and more often than I would have liked, obscure to the point that I wondered who on earth would ever use any of this information.  I don’t feel that way about these words, or the math, grammar and other neat stuff you are all learning with us. They seem so foundational, essential, even basal, as to not only be necessary to but also naturally fostering of the type of intelligence I believe indispensable to bring about a better world And, that is what makes the work so meaningful and fun.  You should all try to find meaningful and fun work someday. (I was didactic right there, if you missed it.)  \nComely: handsome, attractive, agreeable, suitable, compliant, courteous, pleasant. Comeliness is a beauty and delicacy, particularly of one’s facial features.  Comeliness often suggests a facial beauty that  is somewhat feminine in nature. EXAMPLE: One would be hard pressed (one would find it difficult) to earnestly (honestly) suggest that any of the Enlightenment Thinkers pictured above possessed a countenance (face) anywhere close to comely.  Napoleon II, a late Enlightenment/early Romantic Period personage (person), however, was viewed by many to have been quite comely. Similarly, Bonnie Prince Charles Edward Stewart, “The Pretender” mentioned in satire A Modest Proposal, above, was also said to be a rather “comely” lad (young man, boy). Of note, bonnie means handsome or pretty in an almost feminine way. “Bonnie”, however, is an informal or slang term, used primarily in Scotland.  Below, both Napoleon II and Bonnie Prince Charlie—The Pretender.  Bonnie Prince Charles is riding the horse, wearing a Scottish tartan (plaid wool Scottish plaid.)\nCommencement (graduation again)\nCommencement: (765, See 767, in text):  Write a sentence using the word “commencement” twice: first to mean “a graduation”, then to mean “a beginning”.  . \nCommencement: Graduation, the completion of high school or college, but literally the beginning; the literal meaning of commence, or commencement is to begin or the beginning.  Graduation isn’t the end, it is only the beginning.  It is really even before the beginning. \nCommentators: critics, observers, reporters, journalists. \nCommitted: to have done, as in committing a crime; dedicated, loyal, devoted.\nCommon to…: shared with, all having in common.\nCommonplace\nCommune: kibbutz, collective, cooperative; or, to experience a strong emotional or spiritual connection with someone or something, often nature.  EXAMPLE: Walt Whitman’s poem Leaves of Grass is often read as his personal sense of communion with nature. \nCommute: most often used to mean travel, move, or go back and forth; however, also  means to change, alter, amend, modify, much like it could be used in context in Question 46: the judge could commute the prison sentence from 7 years in jail to merely probation .\nCommuted\nCommuting (SUBURB) \nComparable: (See 195, 512, 612, 641, in text) similar, analogous, akin, equivalent, proportional\nCompassion: concern, sympathy, kindheartedness, empathy, consideration \nCompatriot: national, countryman, neighbor, friend, comrade, brother in arms, coworker through a serious period. .\nCompelling\nCompendious: (See 1364, in text) succinct, pithy, concise, synoptic, compressed\nCompeting\nCompetitor: (See 195, 609, 752, in text): participant, contester, entrant, opponent, challenger. \nCompletion: fruition, culmination, realization, to come to an end satisfactorily, based on a progressive design or natural ending.  \nComposed: (See, 611 and 616, both in text: 616 discusses composition of classical music): calm, collected, self-possessed, poised, unflappable, or tranquil. \nCompositions:  a piece or work of music, art, or dance designed/orchestrated by someone, usually for a particular purpose. Or, the make up or parts of something, meaning what “composes” something.  A Snickers Bar is composed of peanuts, caramel, nugget and milk chocolate, along with other less prominent food additives. \nComposure\nCompound: make worse, pile on, or worsen. Or, multifaceted, complex, containing many parts, which are connected in some way. Or, a chemical composed of many atoms. \nCompromise: (608) Use this word in a sentence where compromise means to reach an agreement by making concessions:  Use this word in a sentence where compromise means to weaken or damage something by putting it in a less desirable or secure position: \nCompromise: as used in this question, compromise means to weaken or lessen the value of; to put in the line of danger; an agreement reached by two or more parties, normally after concessions (sacrifices or allowances) are made by all parties and no single party gets exactly what it wants.\nCompunction\nConcerns: worries, interests, issues, fears, apprehensions. \nConcerns: You define it.  .\nConcise: (1204, See 27, 227, 249, 251, 254, in text) It might be most appropriate to define concise with a single word, a synonym. Write any one-word definition of concise here:\nConcise: (See 27, 227, 249, 251, 254, in text) brief, succinct, terse, curt, crisp\nConcoction\nCondemnation: (See 712, in text): censure, blame, damn, criticize, attack, disapprove, or denounce. \nCondemned: (72, 910, See 489, 712, 919, 1065, 1497, in text):  List at least 3 synonyms and 3 antonyms for the word “condemned”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  \nCondemning: reproaching, damning, dooming, sentencing or relegating (marginalizing, assigning to or placing in a secondary, or not prime—desirable place) someone to an extremely unpleasant, usually permanent, and often remote place, circumstance, or position.  \nCondescension: disdain, arrogance, aloofness, superciliousness, haughtiness: Condescension is talking down to someone, speaking to someone in a belittling manner because the speaker believes the person he or she is speaking to is beneath the speaker’s station (class, employment, social position and wealth in a society), class, intellect, education, or level of authority. It is best not to condescend to people, as often the one speaking condescendingly does not sit or stand on nearly as high or nearly as sturdy a pedestal as he or she initially believes.  \nCondiments: a substance that adds flavor to a food. EXAMPLES: salt, pepper, mustard, ketchup, catsup, BBQ sauce. \nCondoned: (148, See 453, 491, 493, in text) What was the last thing you did that your parents would not have condoned?\nCondoned: approved, endorsed, overlooked but with approval something that is generally considered morally wrong. Tolerant, without any criticism immoral or antisocial behavior. \nConfidence: (See 25, 77, 266, 271, 981, in text) assurance, poise, aplomb, courage, boldness: ANTONYM: diffidence.	\nConfirmed: (See, 546, in text of corroborating): verified, validated, substantiated, corroborated, or confirmed. \nConflagration: great fire, inferno, firestorm, blaze or maelstrom. \nConflated: mixed, blended, fused, united, integrated: To mix things together, usually in an inaccurate or misrepresentative or mistaken manner. Or, to mix up or confuse two things which are not actually the same.  EXAMPLE: Often times people conflate real news and accurate reporting with rumor, gossip and petty, sneering—often libelous—comments. \nConfusion: misconception, misunderstanding, mistake, befuddlement, bewilderment.\nCongruous: agreeable, pleasing, enjoyable, appealing, delightful\nConjecture \nConnoisseur: : (in text, 647, 653, above): aficionado, one who is an expert, lover and extremely discriminating in an area, art, sport, etc.; such a person understands and appreciates special skill or talent in an area that few others even perceive. \nConsecutive\nConsequences: (See, in text, 449): effects, costs, penalties, results, direct result: the effect of a specific cause, with a one to one relationship between cause and effect. Or, importance, significance: EXAMPLE: a person of consequence, is an important person.  \nConservative and local: parochial, closed-minded, narrow, provincial. \nConservative: (1539, See 35, 955, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “conservative” or a form of the word: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nConservative: (See 35, 955, in text) traditional, conventional, unadventurous, old-fashioned, careful; staid, those in favor of the status quo, prudent, risk-averse; or, a low or safe estimate; or, conventional, not innovative, not progressive, not liberal, not visionary, following common sense. EXAMPLE: Sometimes it is better to be conservative, while other times it is better to be progressive and adventurous; however, no one has ever lived an uncommon life by following common sense, and no truly conservative set of decisions ever changed the world.  That said, sometimes the world is just fine the way that it is. ☺   \nConsidered: believed, thought to be, viewed as, EXAMPLE: Jules C. Zane is considered one of the best if not the best writers of English prose by all critics of substance. Or, to think about something, deliberate. Or, view as a possibility, weigh.  Or, measured. \nConstitution\nConsumed: engrossed, enwrapped, obsessed; or, to devour, eat, swallow. Or, used, wasted, expended. \nContempt\nContrite: remorseful, sorry, repentant, regretful, apologetic\nControversial: contentious, provocative, debated, arguable, vexed: EXAMPLE: The above discussion about cancer and evolution is controversial by its very nature, as the speculation offered in the piece represents a radical departure from traditional thinking about cancer, which assumes that a highly specialized, cross-species, cross kingdom 3 billion year old mutation that occurs predictably and regularly in certain circumstances is purely the product of random chance. \nControversy\nConvergent: coming together, confluent, connecting, meeting, merging: Tectonic plates are the large pieces of the earth that make up all of the solid ground of the planet.  These plates move up and down and slide both laterally and over one another. When the plates come together they are said to converge.  Below are both illustrations and actual pictures of convergent tectonic plate boundaries:\nConversion\nConviction: belief, tenets, principles, articles of faith, dogma, values, faith.       \nCorroborated: agreed on the details of an event, as in a suspect whose alibi is corroborated by a bartender who confirms that the suspect could not be guilty because he was at the pub during the time of the robbery; verified, validated, substantiated, proved to be true ≠ collaborated (worked together, cooperated, teamed up) NOTE: this similarity is sometimes tested as a diction question in the writing section; two stories corroborate, or agree with each other in terms of the details of an occurrence; two people collaborate, or work together to accomplish a goal.\nCorroborating: (546, See 712, 792, in text) (cf. collaborating, diction error): Do you remember how corroborate differs from collaborate? Write a sentence for each word that shows how to use the word correctly.\nCorrode: destroy, weaken, decay, disintegrate, flake, rust, chemically decay. EXAMPLE: Extreme and long-term exposure to the elements corroded the metal until it appeared discolored, brittle and decayed.  \nCosmology: astronomy, the philosophical or scientific study of the origin and structure of the universe, or “the cosmos”.\nCosmopolitan: (387, 1197, See 389, in text): worldly, diverse, having wide ranging knowledge or experience. Would you describe yourself as cosmopolitan? Write a list of your three favorite places to travel? (1) (2) (3)\nCosmopolitan: (387, See 389, in text) You define it: \nCosmopolitan: worldly, diverse, having worldwide scope or relevance, or showing wide ranging knowledge, interest and refinement, reflected in one’s knowledge of and travel to diverse parts of the world. \nCosta Rica\ncoup d’états: (See 86, coup): coup, revolution, rebellion, takeover, civil uprising, civil war. \nCoup:  (86, 838) rebellion, overthrow, upheaval; coup d’etat: the sudden deposition (removal, ousting) of a government, often by a small group of the existing government or military, who replaces the government with another ruling body, civil or military.\nCoup: (military and civilian, hint): revolution, rebellion, civil or military revolt; coups are usually quick, and do not involve a complete civil war.  Usually, one day one government, a week later, coup occurs and there is soon a new government; coup’s are sudden, violent, and usually led by a nation’s military leaders against the civilian government; metaphorically, a coup can refer to a great, but unexpected accomplishment requiring great skill, daring or bravery.  EXAMPLE: For the Focused Coaching student who scored a 135 on her PSAT, her eventual 2400 on her real SAT, a mere 9 months later seemed a coup: few however appreciated her intense hard work and dedication every single day during those 9 long months.  This one is for you Ilayda.  2400 by June, kiddo.  Mike Farrah and Brandon Findel: chase her, you can catch her. \nCoveting\nCramped: (See 751, in text) confined, restricted, constrained, congested, packed\nCramps: pains, twinges, contractions, pangs. \nCreativity\nCredulity: gullibility, naiveté, thinking everything believable: ANTONYM: incredulity, skepticism. \nCrest: coat of arms, symbol of a family or office; or, culmination, neck-ridge on an animal; helmet ornamentation: think of the “crest” on a rooster (that is a male chicken.) \nCriminalizing: (See 173, 915, in text) banning, outlawing, forbidding, proscribing, prohibiting\nCritical: (See 58, 124, 225, 511, 513, 708, 964, in text) disapproving, disparaging, judgemental, faultfinding, diagnostic, analytical, unfavorable, as in comments which are negative or which give instruction as to how to make something better; OR important, vital, crucial, key, essential, as in information that is critical, or necessary, to making a decision. \nCriticism: (76, See 14, 58, 148, 391, 489, 491, 501, 513, 642, 712, 758, 762, 910, 919, 1065, in text) Economic criticism, a phrase that appears in Question 111, would be a reproach,or disapproval of a policy that relates to how money will be managed or spent. \nCriticized: (76, 1383, See 14, 58, 148, 391, 489, 491, 501, 513, 642, 712, 758, 762, 910, 919, 1065, in text) Some students criticize the frequent repetition of words, but inundating you with countless synonyms is a good way to supplement your vocabulary and promote flexibility in using your new lexicon, which is surely not something to rebuke, censure, reproach¸ or reproof.\nCriticizing (criticize): assess, analyze, evaluate: or disapprove, censure (usually a formal disciplinary action or criticism of someone: members of senate may be censured), disparage, carp, complain. \nCross-industry: multidisciplinary, crossing traditional fields, something which tends to be understood or the province of polymaths: “renaissance men,” masters of many disciplines, cross-disciplinary thinkers, geniuses, all of you if you would just indulge yourselves. \nCrowded\nCulmination: completion, fruition, realization, conclusion; or, reaching a high point, zenith, peak, height, high point. \nCultivate\nCultured: erudite, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, world-wise, worldly, learned and refined. \nCumbersome: (See 21, in text) unwieldy, awkward, weighty, bulky, burdensome, inconvenient: ~Ponderous….\nCurable by: (See 1069, in text) treatable, remediable, correctable, mendable, repairable\nCurb: curtail, control, limit, restrain, reduce\nCuriosity: eagerness to know or learn information, inquisitiveness, nosiness, prying, seeking.\nCursed: doomed, lost, vexed, unlucky; or, to damn, upset.\nCurtail: limit, curb, decrease, cut, lessen, trim, slash\nCutlass: sword; curved sword, usually used by sailors/pirates. Think of a pirate sword from a cheap Halloween costume. \nCynical\nDante Gabriel Rossetti: Rossetti was an artist and poet from the mid to late 1800s.  Rossetti was a founding member of the Pre-Raphaelite brotherhood, and is likely the most famous of the Pre-Raphaelite members. His most famous works his paintings of women which take on a dream like quality.  His poetry is not as well remembered, and was mostly the product of his youth, a period during which he was described as “ “self-possessed, articulate, passionate and charismatic” but also “ardent, poetic and feckless” (undisciplined or lazy). \nDaring: bold, audacious, intrepid, courageous, adventurous ≈ brave.\nData\nDaunting: intimidating, unnerving, nerve-racking, disheartening, and frightening.  When facing a great obstacle for the first time, a person might find the obstacle daunting, intimidating to approach or frightening as the obstacle seems impossibly difficult to overcome. \nDavies adds that there is already some evidence for this in several experimental studies, including recent research at Harvard University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York.\nde facto (fix italics in question): in fact, in practice, in reality, really, actually, in effect. \nDebacles: disasters, catastrophes, fiascos, failures, messes\nDebauchery: wickedness, corruption, depravity, iniquity, impropriety\nDebilitated\nDebunked: proved to be wrong, invalidated, exposed, deflated, demystified.\nDebunking: (547) What is something everyone incorrectly assumes about you? Write a sentence that debunks the mistaken view of you. \nDecades (of drudgery in the wheat field… sun and wind): A decade is a ten year period; here, multiple ten year periods in the sun and wind, doing drudgerous work, work that is exhausting, boring and unpleasant, should tip you off that the man working should be weathered severely by the work and the wind and sun.  This word was only explained to show you what to look for in a sentence.  Decades is a long time and it indicates hyperbolic language, which writers use for emphasis, and so it should be important. \nDeceit: 	dishonesty, treachery, deception, trickery, cheating, pretense. \nDeception\nDeceptive: misleading, misrepresentative, false and fraudulent, dishonest and offered to deceive, and swindle. \nDecimate: (994): ): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “decimate”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).  Use “decimate” and at least one synonym and one antonym you listed  above in a set of logically connected sentences, which tell an interesting story: .\nDecimate: destroy, devastate, ruin, annihilate, slaughter: HISTORICAL ASIDE: The ancient Roman Army used decimation as a punishment for companies (groups of soldiers) who retreated without orders to do so.  If soldiers retreated in battle against orders, one in ten of those who returned from battle alive would be executed.  The executions were carried out by their compatriots.  The choice of the 1 was done by lottery, or volunteers were accepted.  Generally, soldiers were executed by stoning or being beaten with clubs or other soldiers’ bare hands.  It was a less than pleasant punishment, and was an extremely effective method of enforcing discipline and loyalty.  \nDeciphering: (See 780, in text) decoding, decrypting, interpreting, translating, cracking\nDeclaration (Include governmental in context war\nDeclined: weakened, deteriorated, degenerated, decayed, waned\nDecorated (Military): In context here, the word decorated means to have been honored and awarded medals, commendations, or in some other way acknowledged for bravery, dedication, and achievement, usually during military service.  It means that someone from the military won medals for his or her military service. Word originates in the medals themselves.  The uniform is “decorated” (made to look attractive, but serving no purpose) by the medals pinned to the front of the uniform jacket. \nDedicated to\nDedicated: (87, 108, 185, 333, 1643, See 1, 38, 86, 193, 551, 724, 791, 867, in text): Define . \nDedicated: (87, 108, 185, 333, See 1, 38, 86, 193, 551, 724, 791, 867, in text): List at least 3 synonyms and 1 antonyms for the word “dedicated”: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “dedicated” and at least three of the words  listed above in a set of sentences below:    .\nDedicated: devoted, committed, keen (keen can mean sensitive, intense, sharp, biting, acute, enthusiastic, or of very high quality); contextually, dedicated can also mean set aside for a purpose, or designed for one specific task.  \nDedicated: You define it.   .\nDedicated: You define it.  .\nDedicated: You define it.  .(Give four synonyms.) \nDeemphasized: remove emphasis, devalue, distress, marginalize, minimize. \nDefame: to attack someone’s reputation or character through slander (spoken slurs or insults) or libel (printed slurs or insults), insult, vilify, denigrate. \nDefected (defective): (See 905, in text) faulted, imperfect, inadequate, shortcoming, limitation; or, to leave ones country of origin and seek asylum or citizenship of another nation without one’s home country’s permission or sanction.  List two (2) synonyms and three (2) antonyms for the word “advocated” or a form of the word: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) .\nDefendant: someone who is accused of a crime and must attempt to prove his innocence, or rather attempt to disprove anything that shows potential culpability, or guilt. \nDefiant: disobedient, insolent, insubordinate, rebellious, intransigent\nDeficit: (See 763, in text) shortfall, insufficiency, dearth, debt, arrears\nDefined\nDeflated: (See 547, in text) emptied, flattened, squashed, embarrassed, quashed, make diffident, undermine, demoralize, mortify.\nDeforestation\nDeft: (660, See 656, 662, 664, 728, in text) ): List five (5) synonyms for “deft”: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “deft” in a sentence, which also includes an antonym of “deft”:  .\nDeft: skilled, apt, able, talented, adroit, clever, or talented. \nDefused: to relive stress, or make a situation less dangerous or uncomfortable; to stop a bomb from detonating. Defusing a tense situation is the most common usage of the word, unrelated to bombs. \nDegeneration: physical: deterioration, collapse, erosion; or, moral decay, deterioration, collapse, erosion or depravity.  \nDehydrate: remove water from, desiccate, parch, dry out. \nDehydrated: to dry, or remove water from.  NEAR SYNONYM: desiccate, usual refers to drying foods—mostly by salting; or arid just means dry, lacking rainfall, or dull uninteresting.\nDeist: person who believes in a god, or divine being based on reason. \nDejected: (49, see 586, 587, in text): List 5 synonyms for Dejected: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Dejected” in a sentence: .\nDejected: sad, unhappy, depressed, down, crestfallen, gloomy, a lack of hope especially caused by disappointment, failure or REJECTION! (Rejection is key: it even looks like dejected.) \nDelegate: (See 1400, in text) representative, agent, commissioner, envoy, spokesman, ambassador\nDelegation\nDeleterious: (See 161, in text) harmful, toxic, deadly, injurious, detrimental\nDeleterious: harmful, toxic, eroding or damaging effect: COMMON USAGE: deleterious effect: meaning it hurts whatever it touches. Stacy loves this word and loves to give the word its British pronunciation.  \nDelights: pleasures, food, treats. \nDelineated: (215, See 523, in text) List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Delineated” in a sentence: .\nDelineated: defined, outlined, described, demarked as separate, separated. Describe something in detail, mark the bounds of something, or differentiate a thing from a separate thing. \nDelineating\nDelist: to take off or remove from a list.\nDemocratic: (See 497, in text) independent, autonomous, free, egalitarian, parliamentary\nDemonstrated\nDenounced: (See 471, 489, 491, 910, 1065, in text) condemn, criticize, censure, deplore, decry\nDepicted: (See 843, 1038, 1039, in text) portrayed, showed, represented, described, illustrated\nDepot: storehouse, warehouse, repository, reservoir, cache\nDeprecation: (See 491, 1195, 1495, in text) criticism, condemnation, scorn, denunciation, contempt: Original meaning was to hope for divine intervention in the removal of some evil.  Now it simply means to condemn, depreciate (belittle someone or something, not lesson in value, per se. Figuratively? Maybe…), declare obsolete. \nDepressed: sad, low, blue, down in the dumps, dejected, despondent, gloomy, disheartened, crestfallen.\nDerail:  disrupt, upset, interfere, disorganize, unsettle\nDerogated: make something seem inferior, or less; or, criticize, slight, or insult the character of someone or something.\nDescribe which meaning of “stifled”, if any, each picture expresses:  .\nDescriptor:  a name or word associated with an object or person which offers a clear meaning of the object’s or person’s character or nature.  Something—a word or name—which “describes” something well. \nDesert: hot dry climate, typified by lots of sand and no ocean/beach. \nDesiccate: dry, or remove moisture from food; or, lacking energy, interest or passion  (to make something lack interest or energy works too.)   \nDespair: a profound (deep, weighty, intense) feeling of hopelessness, despondency, dejection, desolation, misery, anguish.\nDespised: (15, See 366, 372, 378, in text): hated, reviled, loathed, shunned.  State what you despise most about standardized test taking.   . Now take a moment and try to imagine how what you believe you despise in the work you are doing is actually a flaw, weakness or lack of knowledge in yourself that you do not want revealed, fear filling with the needed information, or which you believe so inherent to you that you do not believe you can alter this part of you, so you must deny the same in all others and in the world.  Do you believe recognizing and accepting such a weakness in you will help you? .  Will you learn to open up to the parts of you and the world that you despise? . We ask only that you look at these parts, not accept them necessarily but at least understand them as understanding makes for better, more functional, deeper, more able and more philosophically centered individuals. \nDespised: hated, abhorred, contemptuous, despicable, derided ≠ shunned, however, shunned implies that one has forsaken or broken ties with the despised person or object.\nDespite\nDespite having former Presidents as members, the Grangers have always avoided official political positions or party affiliation, preferring instead to remain a civic organization and “brotherhood” rather than an explicit advocacy group.  Today, the Grange is still active in local communities, but remains relatively unnoticed on the national scene.\nDespite: (1074): List 3 synonyms of “despite”: (1), (2), (3).  \nDespite: notwithstanding, regardless of, in spite of, without being affected by, even with\nDespoiling: robbing, plundering, sacking, pillaging, looting, rifling, ransacking, burgling. \nDestabilize:  (See, 271, in text): undermine, subvert, weaken, threaten, disrupt.\nDestabilize: (741, 827, 846, see, 271, in text) Ships that have their cargo loaded asymmetrically will often destabilize. Essentially, the center of gravity of the boat is shifted to one side of the boat, which means that it is no longer aligned with the center of buoyancy, the point through which the upward force from the water that keeps the boat afloat is focused (the center of the portion of the hull, or frame, that is submerged). The two forces, gravity pulling down and buoyancy pushing up, induce a moment, or twisting force, which causes the boat to heel, or roll onto its side, taking on an angle of list and settling when the center of gravity once again aligns with the center of buoyancy and the two act along the same vertical line, removing the moment, or torque, that caused the ship to roll. In the drawings below, G is the center of gravity and B is the center of buoyancy. In the second picture, after the ship has rolled, you see that the center of buoyancy, B, has shifted from its original position, B’, and is now aligned vertically with G (which has not moved), because the center of the submerged portion of the hull has shifted to the side of the boat that is now more underwater.\nDestabilize: (741, 827, see, 271, in text): List 5 synonyms for destabilize: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “destabilize” in a sentence: '. \nDestabilized: (741, See, 271, in text): List at least 5 synonyms for destabilized: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “destabilized” in a sentence:  .\nDestitute of that strength and firmness of mind which constitute courage, bravery and fortitude; being of weak courage; mean spirited; cowardly; applied to persons; as a pusillanimous prince.\nDetail: (See 113, 133, 172, 215, 226, 261, 313, 546, 614 in text) describe, explain, expound, identify, specify, declare.\nDetested: hated, loathed, reviled, despised. \nDetrimental: (See 1287, 1444, in text) harmful, damaging, injurious, negative, unfavorable: EXAMPLE: Extended exposure to sun and its harmful ultraviolet and infrared radiation can have detrimental effects on an individual’s health: the sun’s harmful radiation can break down skin integrity, cause malignant melanoma (a form of skin cancer) and, of course, prematurely age one’s skin. \nDevastated by: (See 513, 555, 706, 998, in text) overwhelmed, confounded, shocked, distressed, shattered\nDeviated: diverged, strayed, swerved, turned, digressed: Use “deviated” and at least 2 synonyms listed in this entry in a set of sentences below:   .\nDevolution: decentralization, delegation, transference, federalization, relinquishment\nDexterity\nDiaspora: dispersion, movement, displacement, migration, scattering, EXAMPLE: After an edict by the Spanish Monarch in 1492, Jewish citizens of Spain were forced to leave their adopted homeland.  The resulting diaspora led to the settlement of a large number of Spanish-Jewish refugees settling in Sicily and Aleppo, Syria, where many of those dispersed still live today. \nDiatribe: (14, 502, in text 635): Please list 3 synonyms and, if you are up to it, rant at your neighbor for a moment or too—inconspicuously of course…: (1) , (2) ,        	            (3) .  \nDiatribe: List 3 synonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . Please now write a brief diatribe concerning how unhappy you are to be doing all of these vocabulary assignments:  . \nDiatribes: tirade, long bitter rant, harangues, invective, attacks ≠ denunciations or criticisms, however, diatribes are more severe in nature as they are long verbal angry rants ≠ castigations: criticisms or reprimands intended to punish, but diatribes do not have to be punishing in nature merely angry in nature.\nDichotomous:  divided in two, opposing contradictory parts; self-contradictory, duplicitous, contradictory; having two parts that are vastly different, such that their belonging to a single whole seems off, odd, strange or weird. \nDiction: (1077, See 546, 712, in text): List five common diction errors: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  \nDiction: (See 546, 712, in text) phraseology, wording, language, vocabulary, terminology\nDidactic: (111, 882, See 125, 129, 150, in text): List at least 3 synonyms and 1antonym for the word “didactic”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “didactic” and at least three of the words you just listed above in a sentence or set of sentences below: .\nDidactic: instructive, usually politically or morally, tending to give advice. Know this word. It is often a tone answer, particularly when the story has a moral lesson. Think about the stories in Focused Coaching’s materials related to Roland who can walk through walls and fall through the floor, and who must work incessantly to stand on solid ground or the re-edited Hunger Artist excerpt: both teach moral lessons, and so possess a didactic tone. I am often didactic when I teach, talk to families, and write Focused Coaching materials. There is a first lesson, an academic one that I am conveying, but there is a second, larger more philosophical lesson I am offering, even when it is not wanted or needed.  Didacticism tends to be “pushy” like that!  \nDidacticism: (111, See 125, 129, 150, in text): List 5 synonyms for didacticism: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “didacticism” in a sentence:  .\nDifferentiate: (523; see also, in text, 215):  List 3 synonyms for differentiate: (1) , (2) , (3) .  Now differentiate the synonyms of differentiate from “differentiate”…. (Kidding, move on to the next question.)  \nDifferentiate: separate, distinguish, discern, delineate, to recognize or give expression to a difference.\nDiffidence: 	(See 77, in text, and incalculable times as diffident): If you are still diffident about your ability to recall the definition of “diffident”, then truly you suffer from a lack of self-confidence, extroversion (and perhaps memory) which rivals even the most bashful, timid, and hesitant of folks. \nDiffidence: (1154, See 77, in text; in calculable times as diffident): If you are still diffident what might help you feel more confident (ANTONYM):  .\nDiffident: (149, 959 See 77, 181, 322, in text): Please discuss a time in your life when diffidence rather than confidence dominated your outlook:  .\nDiffident: (149, See 77, 181, 322) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... \nDiffident: not confident, timid, reserved, reticent, hesitant, shy, ≈ unobtrusive (inconspicuous, no one notices you, you blend in.)   \nDigression: (233) You define it: \nDigressive: departing from the central theme, tangential, peripheral, divergent. \nDilettante: dabbler, hobbyist, one with many avocations; one with superficial or desultory (aimless, random, passing from one thing to the other, as if almost by whim.) \nDiligent: (See 1, in text): sedulous, persistent, assiduous, hard-working, conscientious or possessing unceasing dedication.\nDiligently: (791, See 1, in text) Assiduous students will have worked diligently enough on their vocabulary assignments to know this word already.\nDiminutive\nDiplomacy: statesmanship, peacekeeping, statecraft, mediation, negotiation\nDiplomatic\nDisappointed: (See 49, 591, in text) dissatisfied, disenchanted, disillusioned, saddened, thwarted\nDisapproved of: (See 74, 76, 910, in text) dislike, deplore, deprecate, denounce, criticize\nDisastrous: (706) List 5 synonyms: (1), (2),\nDisastrous: calamitous, catastrophic, terrible, horrible, devastating, extremely unfortunate. \nDisastrously: (706, 1299) Do you think the bank robbery will go swimmingly (well, without any problems, smoothly) or will something disastrous happen?\nDisbelief: incredulity, skepticism, skeptical; or, being stunned by something which is so outlandish, it cannot be believed. \nDiscernment: (See 345, 523, 653, in text) judgment, acumen, discrimination, perspicacity, shrewdness.  Exhibit your discernment by explaining the difference between someone who is callow and someone who is willfully ignorant: .\nDiscipline: (620, 726, 938, See 184, 353, 614, 728, in text): List 3 synonyms of “discipline”: (1), (2), (3). Use “discipline” in a sentence:  . \nDiscipline: (Area of knowledge): (620, 726, See 184, 353, 614, 728, in text): Most of our purpose at Focused Coaching is to offer students entrée into a discipline appropriate to their true desires, and to teach each and every student a disciplined way of thinking.  We use analogies and metaphors to convey the discipline we hope to impart upon and lead students towards, but we are rarely direct with students, asking “them” what particular “disciplines” in which each may personally find the greatest satisfaction, regardless of “aptitude”.  In light of the above oversight, and in an effort to be equitable or at least not remiss, we now ask each and every one of you the following: \nDisciplines: (See, in text: 184, 353, 614, and here, in context): areas of study or professions. \nDisconcerting: unnerving, unsettling, confusing, perplexing, bewildering	\nDiscord: disagreement, strife (conflict between people); an unpleasant combination of sounds, cacophony, unharmonious, Antonym: euphonious, harmonious. \nDiscourage \nDiscrediting: questioning, doubting, undermining, disputing. \nDiscrete (ADD MATH ASIDE?)\nDiscriminated against: (See 64, 350, 497, 512, in text): segregated, victims of racism, distinguished, separated, even ostracized from the group. The usage here is classic bigotry, and xenophobia, \nDiscriminating: (952, See 64, 350, 497, 512, in text) You define it:  .\nDiscrimination: discernment, subtle judgment, refined or subtle taste; the ability to make fine distinction: judging. \nDisdain: You define it.  .\nDisdainfully, (disdain):  scornfully, contemptuously, filled with or marked by hatred and lack of respect, disgust\nDisheartened (852, See 440, 587, 623, in text): List 5 synonyms for disheartened: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “disheartened” in a sentence:  .\nDisheartened: (See 440, 587, 623, in text): discourage, dispirit, deject, depress, sadden, dismay. \nDisingenuous\nDisingenuous: dishonest, insincere, deceitful, duplicitous, mendacious\nDisintegrate:  (526, 576) What is the difference between something being disintegrated and simply burned or boiled: .\nDisintegrate: crumble or break apart, possibly even to the degree of complete atomic separation as in Sci-Fi books and films, fragment, split, tear apart, degenerate (deteriorate or lessen in quality).\nDisintegrate: You define it.  .\nDisinter: to dig up or bring to light, uncover, unearth, expose, reveal; remove from the earth as a cadaver.\nDisinterring: (See, 604.) uncovering, unearthing, removing from tomb or crypt or other burial plot/structure.  Name and describe someone or something that you think proved valuable to society when it was disinterred. (Think archeology, anthropology, paleontology—dinosaurs.) \nDismal: miserable, gloomy, depressing, drab, grim. EXAMPLE: We at Focused believe a curious mind and a rich education is the surest path to a bright, hopeful future, while a weak or inconsistent education often leads students to believe that their lives, careers and opportunities in the future are not merely grim, but actually dismal and hopeless.  \nDismiss: (194, See 851, 1028, 1030, 1032, in text) You define it: \nDismissal: notice, discharge, firing, release, removal\nDisown: reject, disclaim, deny, abandon, forsake\nDisowned \nDisparaged: (1195, 1346, See 76, in text): ): List three synonyms of the word “disparaged”: (1) , (2) , (3) . Use “disparaged” and two of its synonyms in a sentence; try to use a comma or a colon to clarify the definition of disparaged with its synonyms:  .\nDisparaged: (1195, See 76, in text) You define it:\nDisparagingly: (See 76, in text) disapprovingly, judgmentally, critically, responding in a negative manner so as to discourage a certain behavior or course of action.\nDisparate: dissimilar, various, distinct, separate, divergent\nDispirited: disheartened, discouraged, dejected, depressed, disconsolate, or dismayed. \nDisplace: (442, See 1122, in text):  List at least 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “displace”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). \nDisplaced\nDisplaced: remove, replace, banish, exiled, expatriated, emigrated, become homeless in a sense or lose one’s “place.” \nDisplayed: showed, exhibited, presented, demonstrated, exposed\nDispleased\nDisposal: to have something at your disposal means to have the ability to use it whenever you like as a resource. Or, to disregard, get rid of, discard, trash.  \nDisprove\nDisquieted\nDisregard: ignore, neglect, discount (to not “count” or include something – NOT in the sense of discounting, or lessening,  a price); can be a noun that means either indifference (not having an opinion about or concern for, possibly a sort of neutrality that may entail complete ignorance of topics that one does not find appealing) OR disrespect, disdain, contempt (Yes it can mean indifference and apathy OR it can mean intense dislike or hatred).\nDissatisfaction: unhappiness, displeasure, discontent, or disappointment with an outcome that does not meet expectation; the state of not being fully satisfied, filled, contented, or pleased.\nDissension: (See 89, in text) opposition, disagreement, discord, strife, contention\nDissertation: a thesis, paper, essay, study, or critique, usually involving in-depth research and analysis.\nDissimilar: (1631, See 409, 1275, in text): List at least 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “dissimilar”: \nDissimilar: (See 409, 1275, in text) unlike, different, unrelated, divergent, contradictory\nDistinct\nDistinctions: (See 64, 133, 172, 345, 350, 614, in text) differences, dissimilarities, discrepancies, peculiarities, variations\nDistinguished: (See 1159, in text) illustrious, eminent, notable, famous, renowned, celebrated\nDistorted: slanted, biased, partial, partisan; or, twisted, bent, made unnatural and inaccurate, even grotesque: to make unrecognizable or unclear through misrepresentation or false representation: a distortion of the facts. \nDistracted\nDistraction\nDiverse: (See 128, 387, in text) varied, assorted, sundry, assorted, multiple\nDiversions: Pastimes, avocations, interests, amusements, sidelining activities, recreations. EXAMPLE: Diversions are things that keep you from earning more points on your SATs and never having to see the test, this booklet, or any of the other tomes that we at Focused Coaching have been and will continue to make and then better for each subsequent generation of Focused Students. \nDivide: (See, in text, 49, 393, 645): rift, division, split, partition, boundary, gap, gulf. \nDivine: (See, 243, 776 in text): understand, figure out, decipher, understand, reason to; or, discover via inspiration, intuition, or other apparently supernatural means.\nDomestic: (See 214, in text) national, native, house, familial, internal\nDominate: (See 981, in text) rule, lead, govern, control, dictate: EXAMPLE: In the early days of the Ironman Triathlon no single athlete dominated the sport: there were 5 different winners in the first five years of the event.  \nDomineering\nDoubt\nDoubt: (See 343, 430, 433, 758, in text) question, hesitate, disbelieve, suspect, vacillate\nDrab: dull, dreary, dingy, damaged, monotonous, colorless, bland. \nDrained: sapped, exhausted, dispirited, disheartened and listless or lethargic. EXAMPLE: After the difficult workout the athlete felt drained.  EXAMPLE: After completing the four hour debate, the speaker was drained: he was completely disheartened and had all of\nDrawn: tired, careworn, pinched, strained, gaunt, thin, wan, or haggard: looking pale and tired and thin from stress, anxiety, and grief.  \nDreadful: (See 365, 1294, in text) terrible, awful, appalling, outrageous, vile\nDriven: motivated, ambitious, competitive, goal oriented, stirred, or enthusiastic. \nDrought: lack, scarcity, famine, dearth, deficiency\nDrudgery: exhausting, boring, unpleasant work; tedium; tedious work. Think about what it was like to write all of these definitions: even when it is a little fun, there are still 1000s of more to do, and so the work seems DRUDGEROUS; it is drudgery. \nDry: (See 236, 746, 763, in text) dull, boring, uninteresting, monotonous, flat\nDubious: doubtful, uncertain, hesitant, suspicious, indefinite\nDupe\nDuplicate: matching, identical, replacement, replica, facsimile\nDuplicity\nDutiful\nDwellers (city or otherwise)\nDwindling: (898, See 50, 900, in text): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “dwindling” :\nDwindling: decreasing, lessening, declining, deteriorating, lessening, dropping, or reducing.\nDynamic\nDystopia: a place where every imaginable bad thing happens, sort of.  It is the opposite of a utopia, or paradise or perfect society.  One does not want to live in a dystopian society. The books 1984, Anthem, Fahrenheit 451 and Brave New World are dystopian novels. \nDystopias: (418) the opposite of a utopia, or perfect paradise, sort of. While it can be used to mean exactly the opposite of utopia (for instance, Hell, or anywhere that everything is perfectly awful), it is generally applied in novels, such as Ira Levin’s This Perfect Day, where it is used to describe societies that seem to be ideal, or at least have tried to become ideal, but which are actually abhorrent because all free will has been systematically suspended by use of force, chemicals, or brainwashing in order to promote conformity.\nEarnest: (See 631, in text) sincere, fervent, ardent, serious, wholehearted\nEast Coast: (FIX CAPITALIZATION IN QUESTION): The eastern portion of the United States, bordering the Atlantic Ocean; the East Coast boasts New York City a financial, publishing and arts capital of the United States and—at least with regard to finance—the world.  Another gem of the East Coast is Boston, north of New York, which boasts the academic and scientific powerhouses MIT and Harvard. All of the Ivy League Schools and oldest schools in the nation are on the East Coast, and in the North East in specific.  For clarification, often when one states that he or she is from the East Coast, the North Eastern Coast is what is meant, as people from that region tend to believe that the southeastern Atlantic seaboard is really more than culturally, intellectually, financially, educationally, scientifically, and artistically more aligned and connected to the United States South. The opinions of those from the South Eastern Seaboard about this Northeastern generalization vary.   (This statement is a tongue-in-cheek, or dryly humorous way of making fun of people from the north east for thinking that they are the center of the world and everyone else doesn’t belong or isn’t as good. Remember, dry humor, it’s just weird, not really funny.  I think the above perfectly fits that description.) \nEbullience\nEbullient: (395, see 170, in text): List 5 synonyms for ebullient: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “ebullient” in a sentence:  .\nEbullient: boiling or bubbling over; jovial, cheerful, enthusiastic, jolly, and joyous.   \nEclectic: (128, See 651, in text): ): List three synonyms of the word “eclectic”: (1) ,       (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and “eclectic” in one sentence below:  . \nEclectic: varied,  heterogeneous, wide-ranging, diverse, taken from various sources and styles. \nEcological\nEconomic (2) financial, monetary, pecuniary, fiscal  It is of note that the SAT often favors using the less popular 3rd or 4th definition of common or “easy” words such as economic, base, smart, familiar etc. They often appear not only as sentence completion/vocab questions but also as “context” questions in the passage based reading (i.e. In context the word “base” in line 29 most nearly means?) So, while in context to this question economic means financial, in another question economic could mean brief, concise, laconic, succinct, frugal, short and to the point.\nEconomic (3): You define it .\nEconomic(s): (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, in text) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... Use “Economic(s)” in a sentence: .\nEconomic: (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 1002, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, in text): List at least 5 synonyms of “economic”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7). Use “economic” in a sentence: . \nEconomic: (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 537, 1002, 1147, 1247, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, 738, in text) Economic can simply mean related to finances, as it does in Question 111, but it can also mean cheap, inexpensive, or bargain. Below is a picture of a man who walks in a squat position in order to find low prices on economy brand (less expensive imitations of name brand products) cereal, which is placed low on the shelves in the cereal aisle.\nEconomic: You define it.  ,\nEconomic: You define it.  ,\nEconomic: You define it.  .\nEconomic: You define it.  .\nEconomical: (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 537, 1002, 1147, 1247, 1382, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, 738, in text):  List 4 synonyms and 3 antonyms for the word “economical”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  \nEconomically: (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 537, 1002, 1147, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, 738, in text) Those with vested interest (people who have invested) in natural gas say that no other fuel is as economically feasible for our country right now; however, they fail to see that our land will soon fail to be viable for human life if we continue fracking the entire middle portion of the country between California and New Jersey. Fracking involves injecting millions of gallons of highly pressurized fracking fluids, which contain highly toxic chemicals like lead and benzene, into the layers of shale deep below the surface in order to form new conduits, or channels, by which gas and oil can be extracted more quickly. There are claims that the toxic waste can be cleaned, but ultimately, it is unlikely that we will ever recover all of the sludge that has been allowed to seep into the soil and contaminate the drinking water for many of the states where fracking is common, such as Virginia, Texas, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania.\nEconomize: make more efficient, spend less, be thrifty, cheap or conscious of how money is spent with the intent of saving or cutting expenses. \nEconomize: to cut back on as spending, save; to improve the performance of something, especially in terms of wasted resources; to streamline or make more efficient.\nEconomy: (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 1002, 1147, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, in text) Find Benjamin Franklin’s famous quote about saving money, and write it on the line below. Hint: PENNY-pinchers really take this message to heart. .\nEconomy: (economy of style): (27, 55, 299, 318, 328, 349, 537, 1002, 1147, 1165, See 37, 187, 227, 249, 251, 330, 334, 511, 738, in text) Describe the same beautiful thing that you described in number 47 above, but write a much more economic (straightforward and not frilly) description.  .\nEconomy: You define it.  ,\nEconomy: You define it.  .\nEcstatic: (675, See 47, in text) Hopefully after learning all these words, you will be ecstatic with your reading scores.\nEcstatic: (in text, 47): elated, overjoyed, euphoric, jubilant, thrilled, very happy, or delighted. \nEdibles: nourishments, foods, provisions, rations, victuals: Edibles are things a person can eat. \nEdification: (150, 169, 828): List 5 synonyms for edification: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “edification” in a sentence: .\nEdifices\nEdified: (150, 169): List at least 5 synonyms for edified: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “edified” in a sentence:  .\nEdified: to morally, spiritually, or intellectually strengthen, sometimes by teaching. Didactic lessons aim to edify students.  \nEdify:  Describe a class, teacher or other experience you found “edifying”. .\nEffaced:  obliterated, destroyed, marred, marked or defaced, wiped out, rubbed out, erased. \nEffacing: (370) While obliterating, marring , or eradicating are three synonyms of effacing, how would one use the word in a sentence, and what might one actually efface.  Please, first list three things you would efface if given the chance: (1), (2) , (3).  Second, state why you would like to efface the things you listed to efface, and the significance of your act.  .\nEffectively: (346, 648, in text): List at least 5 synonyms for effectively: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “effectively” in a sentence:   .\nEffectuate:  to do, cause, or accomplish something, to make something happen; to enact or put into motion, as a new policy.\nEffervescent: bubbly, fizzy, ebullient, metaphorically, lively, bubbly or happy.\nEffete:  overly refined to the point of becoming ineffectual, useless, weak and unable to accomplish anything. Think of a guy who is so nerdy, so afraid to get his hands dirty, and so obsessed with reality TV that he cannot actual do anything but criticize, complain, and have tea. That is effete. (Add picture?) SYNONYMS: weak, decadent, overly indulgent and useless, ineffectual. \nEfficacious: (346): List 3 synonyms for efficacious: (1) , (2) , and        (3) . Be sure to effectively select your synonyms.   \nEfficacious: effective, useful, efficient. If something is efficacious it is surprisingly efficient and useful at solving—usually—a difficult and previously unsolved problem.   \nEfficiency: (334, 346, 350, 658, See 227, 361, 513, 537, 662, 737, 738 in text) What are the two measurements that make up the ratio that determines an engine’s efficiency? Fill in the numerator and denominator to complete to equation:\nEfficient:  well organize, effectual, economic, proficient, streamlined: capable of accomplishing a task with minimal waste or use of resources, time, or effort. \nEfficient:  You define it.  .(Add synonyms, and close synonyms.  Make fine distinctions. Discriminate!!!)\nEffusive: gushing, unrestrained expression, demonstrative (usually feelings),vociferous: loudly and enthusiastically shouting: strident, but strident grating and unpleasant forceful arguing:  ≈   boisterous: noisy enthusiasm-but more rowdy, rough, and innocent—if often unpleasant. \nEgotism\nElated: ecstatic, overjoyed, euphoric, jubilant, thrilled, delighted. \nElectorate:  voters, citizens, civilians, constituency, the public who votes. \nElegant: sophisticated, stylish, graceful, often subtly beautiful and intricate in design. \nElevate: raise, lift, hoist; to raise the quality or rank of something.\nElicit\nEligible: suitable, available, qualified, able, permitted\nElite:  	best, of highest or high rank, highly skilled; privileged minority; richest or most powerful; \nElongated: stretched, made longer, extended. \nEloquence: (874, See 473, 775, in text) Write an eloquent, articulate, well-expressed, moving quote by your favorite author..\nEloquent: (See 473, 775, in text): expressive, fluent, articulate, persuasive, stirring prose especially spoken or read aloud. \nEmaciated: (166, See 164, in text) You define it: \nEmaciated: wasted, withered, extremely thin usually because of starvation. \nEmail this assignment to your instructor if it is interesting.\nEmail this interesting story to your instructor.\nEmancipations: freedoms, liberties: the act of becoming free or the condition of being or becoming free. EXAMPLE: Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation freed the slaves in the American South. \nEmbargo: restriction, ban, prohibition, stoppage, impediment: a legal restriction on the import or export of goods from a country to another country or the world.  EXAMPLE: The United States imposed a trade embargo on Cuba, prohibiting the exchange of goods between Cuba and the United States or any of the United States’ allies. \nEmbarrassed: (See 283, 789, 850, 857, in text) uncomfortable, self-conscious, humiliated, discomfited, mortified\nEmbittered: become resentful, bitter, resentful, cynical, disillusioned, or sour. \nEmboldened: heartened, encouraged, reassured, given courage or made brave enough to act, even act boldly. ANTONYM: disheartened.   \nEmbraced: (969, See 382, in text): List 3 separate synonyms of “embraced”: (1), (2), (3). Now, describe a cause, idea or reason you would embrace with the passion of a Pre-Raphaelite and explain why that cause or idea inspires you.  If you are not “passionately inspired” then explain why you have chosen to “embrace” a more temperate and prudent approach to your vocations and avocations:  .\nEmbraced: (See 382, in text): incorporated, included, encompassed; or, to take advantage of something, make use of something; EXAMPLE: The student embraced the vocabulary companions ease and variety of approaches to learning vocabulary, and soon he possessed a lexicon that Peter Mark Roget would envy, and at which Noah Webster would at least not scoff.  \nEmbroiled: involved, entangled, enmeshed: to get “mixed up in something,”: to become involved in some trouble, disagreement, or conflict. \nEmission\nEmissions: release, discharge, productions, outflows, excretions, emanations\nEmitting\nEmotional content: the feelings or emotions which are either put into a creative work by an artist or elicited (drawn out of) from an observer or enjoyer of the artwork.\nEmpathized: understood, sympathized, related to, appreciated, felt a kinship with.\nEmphasize: stressed, highlighted, accentuated, underscored. \nEmphasized: brought extra attention to, highlighted, accentuated, underlined, underscored.\nEmphasized: You define it.  .\nEmploy\nEmulate: match, mirror, echo, follow, equal: If you could live a life that emulated or otherwise closely matched the life of any person you know or from history or current news/world events, whose life would you emulate and why.   .\nEnamored: (861) You define it:  .\nEnamored: entranced with, enchanted by, in love with,  captivated by, smitten with, inspired by, charmed by; senselessly romantically or ideally attracted to someone or something, to the point where reason is lacking in decision making decisions regarding the object with which one is enamored. (Usually the affection of one enamored is seen from the outside as an affection that is immature, unjustified or childish.)   \nEncircling: surrounding on all sides, enclosing, ringing, encompassing.\nEncourage: (879, See 26, 42, 59, 11, 440, 528, 743, 753, 754, in text): List 5 separate synonyms of “encourage”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).\nEncourage: (See 26, 42, 59, 11, 440, 528, 743, 753, 754, in text): inspire, hearten, cheer, assure, reassure, fortify, support, nurture, foster, or ≈ incubate.\nEncouraged\nEndangered\nEndeavor: attempt, effort, struggle, striving, work, industry, an attempt at accomplishing a goal.\nEndeavors: (479, See 631, 661, in text) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... Use “Endeavor” in a sentence: \nEndorsed: (74, 912, See 148, 433, 998, in text) Invent a product that you could endorse with an infomercial on TV. Draw the product below and write a catchy tagline, or slogan, for your product.\nEndorsement: (74, 912, 1331, See 148, 433, 998, in text) List at least 3 synonyms and 2 antonyms of “endorsement”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7). Use endorsement in a sentence, along with one listed synonym and one listed antonym. The sentence must relate to what precisely—absent irony, satire and sarcasm--Johnathan Swift “endorses” in his A Modest Proposal.  .\nEndorsement: (74, See 148, 433, in text) List at least 3 synonyms of “endorsement”: (1), (2), (3), (4).  Use “endorsement” in a sentence: .\nEndorsing/Endorse: support, approve, sanction (Note: sanction can mean approve or disapprove; it’s a weird word.)\nEndurance\nEndure: tolerate, bear, stomach, abide, stand, suffer through.   \nEnemy: opposition, nemesis, antihero, rival, villain.\nEnervated\nEngagements: clashes, skirmishes, fights, confrontations, encounters. \nEnlightened: (See 78, in text) liberal, progressive, open-minded, edified, refined.  To be free of ignorance, prejudice or superstition, to be well informed, or have progressive or modern views.  Or, to have achieved a spiritual, religious or other metaphysical awareness.  According to Noah Webster in 1828, enlighten meant: Rendered light; illuminated; instructed; informed; furnished with clear views. In 1828, however, Webster offered no definition for the word Enlightenment, or the related historical period which would make sense considering that Webster himself stood smack in the middle of the Enlightenment: a period of rapid social, economic, political, intellectual, philosophical and religious change. \nEnlist: to add one’s name to a list or roster, sign up, register, enroll.\nEnmity: hostility, animosity, antagonism, antipathy, acrimony, bitterness, rancor, aversion, loathing, odium, malice, spite, malevolence\nEnraged: (See 929, in text) furious, fuming, angered, maddened\nEnrapture\nEnroll: to add one’s name to a list or roster, sign up, register, enlist.\nEnsconce: settle, install, plant, position, seat, sit; nestle, make at home, make oneself comfortable.  \nEnsconced: (839) Name and discuss an idea that you feel is ensconced in American culture and then explain why you feel that idea is ensconced. EXAMPLE: “For those graduate students who find themselves conducting research abroad, they learn something about the way other cultures approach research that is difficult, if not impossible to learn when ensconced in the American environment.” \nEnthusiastic: (75, See 16, 87, 172, 395, in text): List 5 synonyms for enthusiastic: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “enthusiastic” in a sentence:  .\nEnthusiastic: excited interest, keen interest; animated, pleasant and overly eager support. Other forms: Enthusiasm: Enthused\nEntity: (See 45, 867, in text) individual, person, body, object, article\nEntombment: To be buried in the ground, or locked away for a long time in a tomb, or similar remote and usually subterranean (underground) structure. SYNONYMs: Interment, Interred \nEntrée: main course, main dish, main fare. An entrée is the main course in a meal: the big dish, the steak in steak and potatoes. \nEntrepreneur: (730, 891, See 737, in text): Name an entrepreneur you respect, and explain why:  . Would you like to be an entrepreneur and if so in which industry and why? Explain, please: .\nEntrepreneur: (730, See 737, in text): List 5 synonyms for entrepreneur: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “entrepreneur” in a sentence:  .\nEntrepreneur: a visionary businessman, a person who finances or starts a new commercial venture (business, company, etc.) \nEnvironment: habitat, climate, locale, place, ecosystem. \nEnvironmentalists: ecologists, preservationists, conservationists, tree-huggers, those who seek to protect the environment from pollution, deforestation, and other ecosystem-affecting practices of men.\nEnvirons: environment, locale, terrain, or surrounding area or land in the immediate vicinity (locale: nearby). \nEnvision: imagine, visualize, predict, plan, envisage, picture, dream, or design.\nEnvoy\nEnvy: jealousy, bitterness, resentment, desire, covet\nEphemeral:  You define it.  .\nEphemeral: (8, 168, 394, 401 & and multiple others): This word occurs so often in the companion that one might think the word occurred everywhere and always, living on eternally in one form or another, no matter how much we might desire the word to have a shorter half-life.  Why is the repetition of the word “ephemeral” though out the hours and hours of this assignment ironic when one considers the meaning of “ephemeral”?  EXPLAIN:\nEphemeral: (8, 168, 394, 401, 812, See 398, 407, 475, 1301, in text): List three synonyms of the word “ephemeral”:                (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and “ephemeral” in one sentence below:  . \nEphemeral: short-lived, fleeting, or evanescent. \nEphemeral: short-lived, fleeting, transitory, vanishing, evaporating, disappearing, see also, evanescent: soon passing out of sight, memory or existence; quickly fading away \nEphemeral: You define it.  .\nEpicurean: gourmand, gastronomic, aficionado of food, connoisseur of food, one with a great love, understanding and discernment of fine food and drink. \nEpigram: a brief, clever, memorable, and witty statement, quip, aphorism, maxim, adage.\nEpitome: personification, embodiment, paragon, essence, archetype, model\nEpitomized: (855, 925) List 3 synonyms of “epitomize”: (1), (2), (3).  Describe what you believe this exercise and these companion workbooks epitomize, in general and in the specific: \nEpitomized: exemplify, typified, embodied, personified, representative; the highly representative example of an idea, trait characteristic, belief, or stereotype. \nEpitomizing: (855): List 3 synonyms of “epitomized”: (1), (2), (3).    Use “epitomized” in a sentence: \nEponymous: possessing the name that is used in the title or as the title of something else. EXAMPLE: Tom Jones is the eponymous hero of The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling; Oedipus is the eponymous hero of Oedipus Rex. \nEquations: calculations, mathematical problems, questions\nEquivalent\nEquivocate: (17, 18, 99, 344) Politicians are known for giving equivocal answers to direct questions in order to avoid committing themselves to a definite stance, often to avoid looking fickle or flighty when they fail to carry through on an act that is expected of them based on their purported interests or promises, or to purposely cover up secrets or beliefs that would be unpopular or possible even defamatory. For example, Anthony Weiner was equivocal when asked about his alter ego, Carlos Danger, who was known to exchange illicit pictures on twitter, saying that the account was a joke, and downplaying the scandal that rocked his marriage and compromised his political career.\nEquivocating (Antonym): vague ambiguous speech; vacillating; waffling, going back and forth; prevaricating: intentionally misleading, ambiguous, quibbling or misleading answer to a question; \nEquivocation (2):  You define it. .\nEradicate: exterminate, eliminate, destroy, remove completely, wipe out, expunge, purge.\nEradicated: (607): List at least 5 synonyms for eradicated: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “eradicated” in a sentence:  .\nEradication (607, 826, see 472, 622, in text): List 5 synonyms for eradication: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “eradication” in a sentence: .\nErode: (See 271, in text) abrade, crumble, weather, weaken, deteriorate.  EXAMPLE: While a defeat may erode the confidence of some, those of possessed of true bravery and strength of character not only rise from their defeats but also grow stronger and more determined never to fail in the same manner again. \nEroded: (991, See 271, in text) It is estimated that the Colorado River established its course through the Grand Canyon 17 million years ago; since that time, it has continued to erode the canyon to its present formation, which exposes about 2 billion years of Earth’s geological history along its 277-mile stretch.\nErr: blunder, stumble, fumble, lapse, drop the ball\nErudite: learned, having or showing great knowledge from education, study or reading.  Not necessarily formally educated, but above expert level knowledge.   \nErudite: Name and draw a picture of a person you consider erudite, then write one word you most associate with that person and the color you associate with him or her.\nErudition: (Erudite):  (119, 228, 512, See 139, 221, 224, 384. 389, 447, 505, 506, 651, 714, 748, in text) Thankfully, erudition has not been criminalized, so you are free to learn anything you want to. Exercise this right to educate yourself by immersing yourself wholly in some field of expertise, but always remember that truly intelligent people examine diverse fields in order to make connections and draw parallels (find similarities) that may help them better understand dilemmas in their own disciplines.\nErudition: Does a pedagogue exhibit erudition?.  How is a pedagogue’s erudition distinguishable from the educational focus of a pedant? .  How can pedantry and pedagogy be compared to erudition? . Tell a story in 200 words or less that shows you can discriminate between the erudition of the two types of “scholars.”. \nErupt: arise, ensue, happen, emerge, break-out; or, anger, outburst, yell. \nEscalate\nEscalated: intensified, worsened, heightened, spiraled, increased\nEscaped\nEschew: steer clear of or have nothing to do with, avoid, shun, abjure, deny, reject.\nEsoteric:  obscure (known by few, remote information), abstruse (difficult to understand.) Random, fun facts and theories that few people really understand, or even know about. \nEsoteric: (126, 482): Name two pieces of information you have learned in the last 30 days which you would have considered esoteric prior to learning those pieces of information.    (1) .  (2) .  Do you know consider that information, which you should hold near and dear to your heart, esoteric? Why or why not?  .\nEsoteric: (126, 482, 624, See 120, 125, 651, in text) At Focused Coaching, we try not to fill you with knowledge that is simply esoteric; while we may discuss historical figures who you may not have learned about before, we try to limit ourselves to people who made truly significant contributions to science, culture, or politics, people who should be talked about because they embodied innovative thinking and trailblazed a path to a brighter future.\nEsoteric: You define it.  .\nEspouse:  You define it.  .\nEspoused: (382, 451, See 385, 433, in text): List 3 synonyms of “espoused”: (1), (2), (3).  Use “espoused” in three different sentences below: \nEspoused: advocated, championed, embraced, supported:  to take on a set of beliefs and become “married” to those beliefs. \nEssential: necessary, vital, indispensable (that which one cannot do without, you cannot get rid of it: dispose of it), crucial, critical, or the most basic quality of a thing or the defining quality or characteristic of a thing. \nEstablished: (568, See 649, in text):  List 5 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “established”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  \nEstablished: as used in this example, established means well-recognized, firmly in-place, customary, reputable, describing something that has already been established or has developed strong roots; most likely you would describe a business as established if it has been in an area for a long time, is a local hotspot, and has been consistent in terms of service, product, or management throughout its existence (since its establishment). \nEsthete or Aesthete: one unusually attuned to beauty, connoisseur. \nEulogizing: praising, extolling, lauding, as if discussing a person’s accomplishments at the end of his or her life: you do not want to be impolite, abusive, or too candid in these situation. \nEuphemism: a polite, discreet, subtle, or understated restatement of something that is considered scandalous, crass, tactless, or inappropriate. \nEuphony: harmonious, in agreement, accord, melodious. \nEvacuated: abandon, escape, flee; to leave one’s home or current place of residence hurriedly because of danger or some perceived threat, and move to a place of perceived safety.  \nEvacuation: removal, expulsion, expurgation, release, clearing, emptying; emptying, emigration, fleeing; mass relocation of a group of people.\nEvanescent: soon passing out of sight, memory or existence; quickly fading away, fleeting, ephemeral, transient.\nEvenhanded\nEventually:  (See 284, 789, in text) finally, ultimately, sometime, in time, in the long run,\nEviscerate: to disembowel, or remove the innards (guts), exenterate. Or, to verbally (thus metaphorically) do the same to a person.  \nEviscerated\nEvocative: (1459) Stand up and perform a dance that will put you in a serene mood by evoking images of swaying trees, flowing water, and the setting sun.\nEvocative: reminiscent, suggestive, redolent, haunting, redolent, bringing to mind thoughts of previous experiences or causing one to think deeply, possibly considering previously hashed over topics from a new perspective\nExact: (See 118, 597, 608, in text) close, true, literal, strict, faultless, perfect, impeccable\nExaggerating: (See 7, 105, 106, 513, 880, in text) overstating, embellishing, embroidering, amplifying, inflating\nExamination\nExamination: (See 914, in text) inspection, checkup, investigation, analysis, consideration.\nExceptional\nExcess: (253, See 42, 71, 202, 235, 248, in text): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “excess” :\nExcessive: like hedonistic, profusion, or extravagance, excessive or an excess, means an extreme amount, more than is reasonable, or which can be accounted for by prudence, providence, or thrift. \nExcise: remove, expunge, eliminate, take-out, eradicate: an excise tax is a tax in a domestic market; for example, gasoline, cigarettes and wine all have excise taxes on them in the United States, extra taxes that are simply added to the price of the product.  You do not see an excise tax, you simply pay it back to the retailer of the product.  The retailer then pays that use tax to the government.  The reason the word excise is used to describe an excise tax and to remove or cut out is a little clouded.  Some have speculated that excise taxes are called “excise” taxed because they are only placed on products that a government should want to remove or expunge: either (1) foreign products that are subject to tariffs, products that don’t help domestic business per se because they are made in other nations and therefore should “expunged or excised” from domestic markets, or (2) products that are damaging to health, morality, or the environment (gas, cigarettes, liquor, etc.) which the government should likewise seek to excise or expunge from society.  This speculation finds little documentary support based on word usage in the 15th and 16th century, when the excise came into use in the two senses mentioned above. The other possible origins of the word’s two seemingly divergent meanings, however, do not seem terribly convincing. \nExclamation: cry, call, yell, shout, scream, outcry.  \nExercises: practice, trial runs, drills, or physical work outs. \nExhaustive: (See 79, 80, 892, in text) (long, thorough, comprehensive, encyclopedic, voluminous, compendious; can become redundant, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, mind-numbing, wearying, droning, monotonous.\nExhibits (law museum)\nExile\nExonerated\nExonerating:  KNOW THIS WORD--and its synonyms--HIGH RECENT OCCURANCE: absolving, acquitting, vindicating,  exculpating: to officially declare that someone is blameless for an act or omission.  NOT GUILTY!\nExotic\nExpand: enlarge, increase, swell, grow, widen, stretch, inflate, or develop.\nExpanses: area, stretch, region, belt, spans\nExpatriated: (See 442, in text) moved out of one’s own country and settled in another country, renounced, or given up, one’s citizenship. There was a famous group of English-speaking writers, who settled in Paris following the desolation of World War I. Dubbed “The Lost Generation,” this group consisted of famous authors like Ezra Pound, Ernest Hemingway, and F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Hemingway’s A Moveable Feast gives an illuminating look into the lives of many of the eccentric artists who were drawn to the hotbed of intellectualism and innovation.\nExpedite\nExpedite: accelerate, further, rush, quicken, hurry, hasten, push ahead.  EXAMPLE: The political leader informed his deputies to clear away all of the bureaucratic red tape and do anything else necessary to expedite the approval of the licenses for new technology desperately needed to better the economy. Expedient solutions are always the quickest ones, but not always the ones which yield the best long term results. \nExpensive: pricy, costly, dear, big-ticket, steep\nExplaining: clarifying, elucidating, illuminating, enlightening: to offer the reason for or logic behind something. \nEXPLANATION: Here, the student meant “circumnavigating,” which means circling or navigating, directing, guiding a ship around something.  Drake circumnavigated the world in at least two clipper ships. What the student said was that Drake used a large pair of 100 foot long scissors or sheers, conducted a health related, or religious act of genital mutilation on the entire world. This is a funny image.  Try your best to think of three funny diction errors that would be considered malapropisms. \nExploit: (See, 524, 539): Describe how you exploit one resource , and how you squander (waste, use imprudently, or unwisely):\nExploit: to use or utilize; to take advantage of somebody; an adventure, deed, pursuit, or achievement.  \nExploit: You define it.  .\nExponentially: to change at a rate that is extremely rapid, like an exponential function.  Or to grow or change at a rate that is geometric.  EXPONENTIAL EXAMPLE: 2, 4, 8, 16 … or  21, 22, 23, 24 …. Traditionally, in mathematics, the “number” raised to an exponent is the natural number e, not 2, as in the example. \nExquisite\nExtensive\nExtinct: nonexistent, vanished, lost, gone, died out\nExtol: praise, laud, commend, condone, worship; proclaim, advance, forward. \nExtracting: (See 532, in text) removing, unearthing, extricating, isolating, getting\nExtraterrestrial: (799): Draw your favorite extraterrestrial anything:\nExtraterrestrial: alien, interplanetary, not earthly, otherworldly, space, intergalactic. \nExtravagance: (248, See 193, 253, 264, 583, 1144, in text) overindulgence, luxury, a lifestyle which includes profligate spending on extra or nonessential items.\nExtravagant\nExtravagant:  excessive, wasteful, luxuriant, profligate, wasteful, over generous, new money spending.  \nExtremism\nExtricate: remove, detach, extract, disengage; rescue as from a dangerous or risky situation.\nExtricated: List 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3). Name someone whose job is to extricate people from dangerous situations .\nExtroverted\nExtroverted: (357) Write three (3) sentences which correctly use the word “extroverted” and which each includes different antonym of extroverted.  \nFabrication: (See 335, in text) construction, manufacture, production, assembly, building\nFaçade:  false-face, or fake demeanor put on for appearances or to cover some deeper secret, or related: a showy misrepresentation to hide an unpleasant secret beneath the façade.  SYNONYMS: pretense, affectation, semblance, charade. \nFaction: political group, dissenting minority, a fractious subgroup within a group, usually political. Historical Note:  Founding Fathers Madison, Hamilton and John Jay wrote the Federalist Papers and the Constitution of the United States to break the power of factions.\nFactoids: single piece of information, single fact, tidbit of information. Or unreliable information.  \nFaded: washed-out, bleached, pale, blanched, discolored\nFaithfulness: (See 385, 945, 957, in text) authenticity, truthfulness, fidelity, genuineness, honesty\nFaithless: disloyal, not trustworthy, ≈ untrustworthy or failing to keep an oath or promise. Or unreligious. \nFallen: toppled, crumbled, collapsed, deceased (dead), defeated, overtaken; decreased as in “the temperature has fallen”.\nFamous Satirists: Mark Twain; Nikolai Gogol; Shakespeare, really any and all great artists at some point foray into satire.  The most shocking of these forays, however, and something we at Focused believe all should read is the following bit from Johnathan Swift’s: A Modest Proposal: The subject of the satire is the exploitive taxation of the Irish and their children (to the point of starvation) by the British aristocracy. The text in its original entirety is included below, but may be skipped if you do not happen to be interested in the satire.  Vocabulary continues on page 143. You may skip this portion, but if you were to read it, it would be best to attend the footnotes quite carefully. \nFancy: (See 104, 361, in text) elaborate, extravagant, elegant, ornate, flamboyant; or, to become obsessed with or gain an affection for someone or something. EXAMPLE: John fancies Lilianna and so he often sends her long, romantic letters and poems. \nFatal: lethal, deadly, mortal\nFear of Failure \nFear of Infinity \nFear of Work \nFeasible: (1249, See 1006, in text) You define it: \nFeasible: (See 1006, in text) possible, practical, viable, achievable, reasonable\nFellow: (See 113, 226, in text) (2 defs: fellow teachers, fellow police officer, fellow students): companion, friend, comrade, associate, chum, peer, colleague\nFeral: wild, untamed, uncontrollable.\nFidelity: loyalty, faithfulness, reliability, trustworthiness, dependability\nFiduciary: related to the relationship between a trustee and the person for whom the trustee acts; one who is in charge of managing the property or financial assets of another person or a company.\nFinances: funds, money, equity, assets, cash, capital, profits and losses, accounts and accounting. \nFinancial: (48, See 22, 27, 37, 46, 379, 746, 749, in text) List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). Use “financial” in a sentence: \nFinesse: (662): List five (5) synonyms for “finesse”: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “finesse” in a sentence, which also includes an antonym of “finesse”:   .\nFinessed: elegant, deft, adroit, skillful, agile, elegant, dexterous, tactful, or efficiently talented. \nFiring:  dismissal, discharge, axing, sacking, lay off\nFixation\nFlag/Flagging: weakening, fading, waning, failing, abating, dwindling. \nFlagged: (50, 894) Use “flagged” in a sentence: .\nFlagging: (50) List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4). Use “flagging” in a sentence:  .\nFlair: talent, skill, style, aptitude, ability. \nFlawless Brilliance (gemology)\nFlayed\nFlaying knives: utensils used for deboning or cleaning fish and other meats prior to cooking. (“to flay” also means to whip, or beat severely, or to strip away skin or the outer covering from an animal or person; metaphorically, one can be “flayed” via—by—a vicious harangue, diatribe, rant or other verbal attack.)\nFleeting: short-lived, ephemeral, evanescent temporary, transient, passing, “here-today and gone tomorrow”; leaving no permanent mark or trace. \nFloss\nFloundering\nFlourishing: (See 676, in text) prosperous, thriving, booming, successful, blossoming; growing and doing well in an environment.  EXAMPLE: In a truly integrated bi-lingual educational environment, language studies would flourish and at least half of the students would graduate with language skills sufficient enough to make these students capable of learning, working and enjoying a foreign land without any true language handicap. \nFluctuated: varied, altered, oscillated, vacillated, wavered\nFocusing on\nFolly: idiocy, madness, craziness, recklessness, lunacy (see satire above)\nFond (ly): affectionately, kindly, warmly, caringly, tenderly. The fondness is not quite lovingly. I have fondness for many students; it would be weird if I felt the same affection and tenderness I feel for Jules (my son) for all of my students.  You will do way more for your children than for anyone else in the world… Just ask your parents.  ☺\nFondness\nFoolproof\nForegoing: previous, last mentioned; or, bypass, ignore, circumvent, step over, skip: EXAMPLE: The computer science department at Berkeley allowed John to forego the usual math requirements for a degree in computer science as John had already fulfilled the program’s core requirements 2 dozen times over, during his engineering and mathematics college and graduate education.  \nForensics: formal debate, or argument—usually in a competition or for a political meeting, debate. Or, medical investigative pathology (cut up bodies to figure out who or what caused the person’s passing.)  Below are pictures of the typical understanding of both forms of forensics. \nForethought: foresight, consideration, planning, prudence, anticipation. In context, forethought in this question implies that the company was smart enough to foresee future issues/ problems and either avert them or deal with them head-on\nForfeit: (609) You define it because I give up: \nForfeit: give up, give in, yield; to stop competing or fighting; \nForgettable\nForlorn\nFormation: (See 68, 75, 179, 505, 555, 565, 573, 574, 581, 616, 620, 739, 812, in text) (CHECK DOUBLE USE OF FORMATION IN THE STEM): creation, development, outcropping, grouping, arrangement, military arrangement of troops, a rock outcropping, a growth of crystals. \nFortified: (528, 842, 990 See 1358, in text): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “fortified”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).  \nFortified: strengthened, hardened, made safer or more powerful; encouraged, heartened.\nFortify: (528): Use “fortify” in an extended metaphor relating to fortifying someone (“steeling his resolve”) to work harder and suffer through any trial or tedious work in order to achieve something great.  Remember, overcoming obstacles, rising from a fall, and suffering but surviving when no one else could often are the key ingredients to a successful life, possessed of an overwhelming almost unbelievable life story. This fantastic story of a life, however, is usually only possible because the person living that life  actually was fortified by the recollection of his own bravery and strength of character in overcoming obstacles.  These early acts, and the bravery and strength of character they engendered, formed the moat, castle walls, and watch towers of his later success. For, all of life’s  amazing success stories are built one small obstacle overcoming brick at a time, and these bricks are then held together by the mortar that is the courage to overcome adversity.  Try writing five 5 sentences and use fortification or related metaphors in each of the sentences. Keep the metaphors related or the you may make a style and logic error called “mixing a metaphor”.  (I will explain later.):\nFortify: (528, 842) Here are three examples of items which exemplify fortification, fortifying, and even edification.  The first image is of a new born Jules, who fortified my resolve to build these materials and work as hard as I can to ensure that he will have the best education and the most opportunity I might help provide.  Please explain how the other two pictures (aside from Jules) are fortifications, and then describe something that has personally fortified or edified you: \nForward: extol, laud, commend, condone, advance; honest, frank, blatant, direct.\nFoster: (112, 760, See 125, 754, 763, in text): List 5 synonyms for foster: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “foster” in a sentence:  .\nFostered Story: .   \nFostered: (See, 112): Describe a trait in yourself that you feel this exercise or some other work at Focused Coaching has fostered, then tell us how we might improve other exercises to similarly foster your growth: \nFostered: nurtured, encouraged, promote: \nFoundational: necessary for continued study or understanding; basic, introductory, essential, the base level, or basis of something. \nFourthly, The constant breeders, beside the gain of eight shillings sterling per annum by the sale of their children, will be rid of the charge of maintaining them after the first year.\nFragile: delicate, breakable, delicate, frail, weak\nFrigate: In general, this is a term for any warship, since it has been used for ships of various sizes and purposes over the years. Initially, in the 17th century, the term described warships that were built for speed and maneuverability and that had all of their large weapons situated, or located, on only one deck, or level, of the ship. At this time, frigates were generally too small to be considered “ships of the line”—these larger ships were used in a common form of naval warfare, which was basically always won by the side with bigger heavier ships and cannons, consisted of running a whole convoy of ships, sailing end to end in a line, past the location of enemy ships, which were often similarly queued in such a fashion, in order to fire a constant barrage from the mounted guns, which shot out from the side of the ships.\nFrigid\nFrisky \nFrugal: (See 27, 694, in text) thrifty, pennywise, abstemious, provident, economical: EXAMPLE: Being frugal and prudent with your money is one thing; being cheap to the point of hording your wealth and refusing to part with even a single penny is quite another. \nFrugality: (1143, See 27, 694, in text) Give an example of extreme frugality. It could be something you saw on a certain channel that is given to airing documentary-style shows that depict individuals possessed of extreme frugality..\nFruition: completion, realization, culmination, actualization: to finally come into being or to occur as initially imagined.  Word comes from a fruit ripening, finally you have what you want and what you imagined. \nFrustrated: unfulfilled, irritated, unsatisfied, upset, angry, exasperated, or discouraged. \nFundamental: central, vital, essential, foundational, basal, basic.   \nFutility: uselessness, pointlessness, ineffectiveness, senselessness, vainness, frustratingly pointless. \nGarish: (See 1185, in text) gaudy, tawdry, showy, dazzling, loud: EXAMPLE: The above “blingy” car is garish. \nGarnered: (See 508, in text) acquired, gained, accumulated, reaped, ammased\nGasping: breathless, panting, winded, puffing, wheezing. Desperately attempting to catch your breath.\nGastronomic: relating to food, fine dining, being a gourmand, aficionado, connoisseur of food; an epicurean is a connoisseur of food: an epicurean or gourmand may also be referred to as a gastronomic.  \nGaudy: (See 1185, in text) garish, flashy, kitschy, ostentatious, brassy: Gaudy also means the gaudy attire or actions, etc. are without taste, sophistication, or style.   In the words of Noah Webster in 1828: showy beyond the simplicity of nature or good taste.  See picture below for ostentatious.  Ostentatious is showy, and flashy, but not necessarily gaudy.  The picture of the car with rubies and gold as an interior, well, it is gaudy too. Here is the picture from ostentatious in miniature (the picture is so much better in full color ☺ ):\nGaunt: thin, pale, emaciated, almost skeletal/ghastly. \nGeneric\nGenerous: kind, giving, magnanimous; representing a large portion; or, full-flavored, rich in taste or body when referring to food; or, pleasingly large, even surprisingly so, “a generous portion of roast beef.”\nGenerously\nGenius: (See 353, 943, in text) prodigy, brain, virtuoso, intellect, brilliance, visionary, polymath. \nGentle: mild, calm, tender, placid, temperate\nGenuine\nGeometric: relating to shapes, figures, or the formal mathematics of triangles, circles, etc. Or, an expansion which is exponential in nature: a series that increases with great rapidity. \nGesticulated\nGibberish: nonsense, rubbish, drivel, balderdash, blather\nGifts (talents): talents, skills, natural ability, ability, aptitudes, capacities or propensities. \nGive Us Your Advice: .    \nGiven to: inclined to, having a tendency to; one who is given to lavish spending spends a lot of money on superfluous luxury items OR offered to, as in an award being given to the outstanding filmmaker of the year.\nGlimpse: hint, sign, slight indication; or, a small or brief view of something, usually only part of the whole that might be there if looked at for a long time: brief look.  \nGlorifying: (See 599, in text): worshiping, lionizing, deifying, adoring, elevating.\nGlossing Over\nGordon Haller 1978 Iron Man Winner\nGossip: chatter, rs, blabbering. \nGovernance: ruling, overseeing: the act or state of governing a place; the system of rule; the style of rule within a governmental system or model; or, control or authority, which rules a region or group of people. \nGraduation: commencement, the passing from one place or institution, after the fulfillment of the requirements of the place or institution. Moving on, plus a piece of paper.  \nGrammar: (See 125, 712, in text) syntax, sentence structure, parsing, morphology, linguistics: HISTORICAL ASIDE: At Focused, we encourage a simplified set of grammatical rules based on the single principle of agreement.  We have stripped away most of the artificial naming conventions in grammar, and instead take a functional, straightforward approach.  In our work, and because we all like to think about things and what other people in the world are doing and thinking about education and learning, we have taken something of a pedagogical interest in the study and teaching of grammar, math, vocabulary, reading, history, culture and civics throughout the course of United States history.  As a result, we stumbled on another mind from long ago that similarly believed that English grammar could be simplified down to 16 rules (we believe it can be simplified to between 14 and 20).  This man was Noah Webster, and his 16 rules of grammar, contained in the final third or so of his Blue Back Speller educated every generation of Americans from 1786 until at least 1840, and remained in use at least in pockets of the United States until about 1918, when a more complicated set of grammatical rules was put in place.  \nGrandeur: splendor, magnificence, sumptuousness, opulence, greatness; grandeur is often awe inspiring, and is also often linked to something that is “divine”, magical, or which makes one feel smaller or more able to recognize the vastness and wonder of the larger world or universe.  I first experience the sense of the grandeur of the universe, and its awesome size when I opened an atlas across the front hall of my parent’s house when I was a child.  In the front of the atlas was a set of fold outs of the then known universe.  The fold outs showed me how small I and our whole little planet were and are in comparison to the size of the then known universe.  Below is a similar representation to what I saw when I was maybe 8 years old. Grandeur unlike awesome or awe inspiring does not inspire fear, more just respect. \nGrasp: (See 844, in text) understand, comprehend, follow, absorb, perceive; or, reach, pull, range scope. EXAMPLE: Some students believe they cannot grasp the concepts necessary to understand SAT math; grasping the concepts, however, is rarely the issue; rather, grappling with fear is more often the true obstacle to be overcome. \nGrating\nGratitude: thankfulness, appreciation, recognition, acknowledgment, credit, gratefulness\nGratuitously\nGregarious: (357) outgoing, sociable, extroverted, unreserved, social, companionable; very friendly or personable. \nGregarious: outgoing, social, extroverted, unreserved, sociable: preferring company and group interactions. \nGrievance\nGrievous: (See 588, in text) serious, severe, grave, dreadful, painful\nGross Negligence: (1296, See 175, 264, in text) a legal term which is used to describe behavior by caretakers or professionals who shirk their responsibility for others’ lives and well-being, such as doctors and lawyers, by failing to be extremely diligent, or careful, when it comes to matters which could drastically harm or even kill those entrusted to them. Most often, it happens when self-important (arrogant, conceited) doctors, while not intentionally killing patients, do not have enough regard for other’s lives to invest adequate attention to what they are doing at work, and they overlook certain courses of action that might prevent avoidable deaths.\nGrotesque: (See 312, in text) surreal, malformed, distorted, abnormal, freakish\nGroundbreaking: (See 336, in text) innovative, pioneering, trailblazing, cutting-edge, revolutionary: a visionary or new invention, idea or philosophy which changes the way in which people everywhere think about what were once commonly held, common sense ideas or assumptions.  If Groundbreaking ideas lead to events which propagate  cultural, social, or discipline-wide change, these events are called watershed events.  \nGrudgingly\nGullible\nHabitat: environs, home, living space, environment, place where someone or something lives. \nHabits: (See 113, 160, 181, 305, 685, 715, 867, in text) ways, behaviors, practices, routines, patterns\nHackneyed\nHailed: acclaimed, praised, extoled, lauded, glorified: praised, as if viewed as a hero or someone capable of heroic or astounding accomplishments.  EXAMPLE: When a team wins the World Series, during the celebratory parade, the team’s players are hailed as heroes by the hometown fans. \nHalcyon:  the tranquil, almost heavenly peaceful and perfect time; the “glory days”; a period when everything is or was “perfect.” \nHalf-hearted: (See 763, 963, in text) unenthusiastic, cool, apathetic, unconcerned, indifferent, languid\nHamper: (114, See 745, 866, in text) List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “hamper”: \nHampered: slow progress, impede (interfere with or slow progress)\nHandful: (See 513, in text) a few, some, scattering, sprinkling, small number \nHappenstances: circumstance, coincidences, occurrences, accidents, chances, luck ≈ serendipity (a lucky accident, or happenstance.) \nHardly: scarcely, barely, not really.  Word replaced in question with “BEST”, meaning most aptly or appropriately.  \nHardship\nHarnessed: gained control of and put to productive or at least one’s own use.  EXAMPLE: While for a long time, I had underutilized the brilliance of the Focused staff, once I harnessed their brilliance and their enumerable talents, we were able to rapidly and beautifully complete this vocabulary book, a rewrite of the Class Binder, and the new Essay Writing Work Book.    \nHarsh: (697, 1348, See 6, 19, 58, 676, 694, 960, in text): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “harsh”: \nHarsh: (697, See 6, 19, 58, 676, 694, 960, in text) Write a harsh remark about the last movie you saw. \nHarsh: (In text, 6, 19, 58, 676, 694): putative, cruel, severe, strict, exacting, unforgiving: ANTONYM: lenient. \nHarvested: gathered, collected, picked, garnered, reaped\nHassle: annoyance, irritation, inconvenience, difficulty, bother.\nHastily: (1270, See 1268, in text): List at least 3 synonyms and 1 antonyms for the word “hastily”: \nHastily: hurriedly, quickly, unwisely, rashly, heedlessly\nHaughty: (See 104, 429, in text) arrogant, proud, conceited, snobbish, pompous, superior\nHauling\nHave been modernized and combined to now require coordinating conjunctions and commas, semi-colons or colons between two independent clauses, and to insist on parallelism between infinitive verbs and gerund or other –ing clauses. Similarly, the modernization of these rules has greatly limited the proper use of the word “being” in formal sentence construction.  \nHaziest: (See 9, in text) foggiest, cloudiest, smokiest, smoggiest, murkiest\nHeadlong: reckless, rash, hasty, precipitous, careless\nHeathens: pagans, infidels, heretics, idolater, skeptic\nHeavenly: celestial, divine, high quality, delicious, beautiful, pleasurable, wonderful, blissful, holy, amazing. \nHeavy-handed: forceful, oppressive, tyrannical, despotic, undiplomatic. EXAMPLE: Heavy-handed leadership can often cause employees or other people who are lower in status in an organization to feel as if they are being pressured incredibly.\nHedonism: (42, 294, See 193, 253, in text) Epicurus is often thought to be the father of hedonism, but his philosophy differed from simple immoral, pleasure-seeking in an important way. Epicurus actually thought that avoidance of pain was the greatest pleasure, and while Epicureanism does promote the seeking of moderate and sustainable pleasures, people are not encouraged to live debauched lives, fixated solely on fulfilling desires for sensual pleasures.\nHedonistic: (42, 294, 1449, See 193, 253, in text): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “hedonistic”: \nHedonistic: You define it.  ,\nHedonistically: unrestrained indulgence in pleasure’ excessive, often reckless, extreme indulgence in pleasure. Hedonists are the people who indulge in often reckless, excessive amounts of pleasure. Hedonism is the philosophy which encourages such indulgences.   \nHelen Glen (Historical Murals as Revolutionary Community-wide Acts): While the name Helen Glen is not associated with any actual artist of note, the question in general refers to a period in U.S. and world history when communities began to use murals, painted on public buildings and roadways, to express the politics, lifestyles, and hardships associated with particular demographic groups.  In the United States, the Hispanic community produced murals in large numbers across America.  The most famous of these murals were painted by Diego Rivera. His works were painted in Rockefeller Center in New York, the Detroit Art Institute, and on the wall of the San Francisco Stock Exchange.  Below are the three most famous works from New York, Detroit, and San Francisco.\nHeralded\nHeretic: (See 1162, in text) dissenter, nonconformist, freethinker, iconoclast, nonbeliever: EXAMPLE: Almost all innovative scientific and cultural thinkers are called heretics by the more venerable members of the culture or community. \nHesitant: (322, See 77, 149, 181, 640, in text): List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7). Use “hesitant” in a sentence:\nHesitant: you should know this word!!! Reticent, cautious, timid, reluctant, diffident, wary. \nHighlighted: emphasized. (See 272, 338, 566 in text) feature, spotlight, stress, accentuate, underline\nHoarse\nHoary: elderly, grizzled, aged, old, venerable\nHobbled: crippled, lamed, limped, disabled, metaphorically: crippled, lamed, limped, weakened, disabled, inhibited, damaged, slowed, disabled, derailed, slowed. \nHobbling or Hobbled (824): Which of the below three circumstances either shows someone or something hobbled or depicts a situation which would be hobbling to someone or something?\nHobby\nHodgepodge: (410, See 411, in text) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).\nHodgepodge: a mix of unrelated “things”: jumble, assortment, mix, potpourri, mishmash, mélange. \nHomage: respect, reverence, tribute, worship.\nHoned: (See 960, in text) polish, refine, improve, enhance, fine-tune\nHonorable: (See 38, in text) moral, decent, ethical, righteous, virtuous. EXAMPLE: It is honorable to espouse civic virtues and to dedicate oneself to supporting a community, unity and charity.  \nHorrid: (See 365, in text) unpleasant, nasty, callous, despicable, beastly\nHousehold: domestic, family, domiciliary, house, ménage\nHubris: (See 789, in text) arrogance, haughtiness, pomposity, egotism, superiority\nHuman element: refers to any part of art that relates to the psychology or behavior of people; a sign of human consciousness or motivation that is either overt (obvious) or tacit (not spoken or shown, but understood to exist or be true) in a work of art.\nHumbled: (789): List 5 synonyms for humbled: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “humbled” in a sentence:  .\nHumbling: deflate, appropriately lower, debase, demoralizing, embarrassing, perspective changing, devaluing, ego bruising, humiliating (if one is prideful, or arrogant).  A humbling experience is one where a person’s defeat or complete lack of preparation for something makes him or her realize that he or she is not that awesome, powerful or important.  The person’s pride is damaged. His or her world view is changed. And, hopefully, he or she learns to work harder, take nothing for granted, value others more and, as a result becomes a better, humbler, but eventually more powerful person. I believe it is good to have humbling experiences; they seem to be what are most important in building the foundation of a great and important life.  Sometimes a person must “lose”, “be fired”,  “fall because of pride”—pride right before the fall is called hubris—is necessary for someone to value every moment he or she has and really learn his or her limits.  I have been humbled so many times I now find it funny and “tax” myself when it happens. \nHumbuggery: deceptive or false talk or speech; sometimes, bombastic speech is humbuggery; or, “humbug” is a British candy. Recall, Scrooge in a Christmas Carol always says, “Bahh! Humbug!’ Meaning he believed Christmas a con to get people to spend money, and fake kindness. \nHumdrum\nHumdrum: (259) Name three synonyms for humdrum: (1), (2), (3).  Name three things you find humdrum, other than doing vocabulary, and say why you find them so: : (1), (2), (3).  \nHumdrum: (259, 787, See 864, in text) Defining these words can be a humdrum, even soporific exercise. Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.\nHumdrum: dull, boring, routine, ordinary, regular, repetitive. \nHumility: humbleness, modesty, meekness, diffidence, unassertiveness\nHumor: (59, See 97, 117, 142, 236, 746, 763, in text): List 3 synonyms of “humor”: (1), (2), (3).  Craft a “humorous” sentence, using the word “humor” or a related sentence.  Email your humorous sentence to your teacher as soon as you finish writing the sentence:  . \nHumorless: (1186): List 3 synonyms of the word “humorless”: (1), (2), (3).  Name a teacher or other authority figure who seems humorless to you, and consider if that authority figure is humorless, or if he or she is simply bound by circumstance and position. You may write about your thoughts and email them to your Focused instructor if you like. \nHumorless: sullen, serious, sour, solemn, grave, saturnine\nHype\nHyperbolic (hyperbole): deliberate and obvious exaggeration used for effect.  Extreme language used as a rhetorical device, usually in writing, but also in speech.  Exaggeration, embellishment, overstatement.  \nHypochondriac: a person who is preoccupied with or anxious about having a serious illness. Hypochondriacs fixate on the details of bodily functioning and exaggerate the symptoms of any type of discomfort, assuming something far worse is happening to them.\nIconoclastic:  You define it.  .\nIconoclastic: someone who challenges or overturns customs, beliefs, traditions and values  ≈ maverick; someone who opposes and destroys religious icons/images. \nIconoclastic: You define it.  .\nIdeal: model, example, paradigm, archetype, standard \n	Ideas no longer were enough. Ideas had become real and taken on a gruesome, and extreme reality.  The kindness of mankind could not only not be taken for granted, but was in question on the whole. Let’s just call it a turning point.    \nIdentical: (See 1391, in text) equal, equivalent, alike, interchangeable, similar\nIdentified: (727, See 747, in text): List 3 synonyms of “identified”: (1), (2), (3).  Use “identified” in three different ways in three different sentences that you write below: \nIdentify: (727, 913, See 747, in text): List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). Use “identity” in 2 different sentences, which display your understanding of two separate meanings of the word “identity”: \nIdentifying: something that characterizes or distinguishes a person from another person, something unique to an individual or thing. \nIdentity: individuality, uniqueness, distinctiveness, recognition, name\nIdeologue: zealot, dogmatist, true believer, faithful: one bound only to an idea or faith; this bond is so unshakeable that no reason can interfere. \nIdiosyncratic: (1075, 1108, See 689, in text)\nIdiosyncratic: (1075, 1108, See 689, in text): List 3 synonyms of “idiosyncratic”: (1), (2), (3).  \nIdiosyncratic: (See 689, in text) characteristic, distinctive, individual, peculiar, unique, personal\nIf you cannot think of a famous misanthrope, I will give you a hint, because it is the season of giving and everyone deserves a little “Christmas gift” even good old Ebenezer… Bah, Humbug!!!! .\nIf you have been sedulous this assignment should be getting easier and easier and easier.\nIgnobility: dishonorable, unworthy, shameful, contemptible, despicable, dastardly\nIgnominious: (138, 1330, See 284, in text):  List at least 3 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “ignominious”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).\nIgnominious: shameful, dishonorable, disreputable, disgraced, an ignominious reputation or act. \nIgnominy: (138, See 284, in text) Name someone from history that you would consider ignominious and say what that person did that was shameful or disreputable.\nIgnorance: (See 578, in text) unawareness, foolishness, incomprehension of, obliviousness, idiocy\nIgnorant: uniformed, lacking knowledge, uneducated—at least on a specific topic, unaware , unlearned: recall, learned, educated or erudite, which are antonyms of ignorant.\nIgnorant: You define it.  ,\nIgnorant: You define it.  .\nIgnore: (580, See 272, 578, 858, in text): List three synonyms of the word “ignore”: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nIgnore: disregard, neglect, intentionally pay no mind to.\nIgnored\nIgnoring\nIllogic: the quality or state of being irrational, unreasonable, unsound, groundless, or unfounded\nIlluminated: well-lit, bright, light; shed light on, as in clarifying a misconception or exposing a previously unknown truth, like Galileo, who cast light on the Church’s fallacious teachings, ultimately sparking the Enlightenment.\nIlluminating: (545, See 78, in text) What types of details might Professor Hicks discuss if he wanted to shed light on his actual experiences working in the field of archaeology? \nImaginable (possible, conceivable): (See 418, 614, in text): possible, conceivable, thinkable, presumable, comprehendible, or comprehensible.  Chandra Bose’s knowledge of disciplines so diverse and varied was said to be unimaginable to a “normal” person; Mr. Bose, however, was more modest, stating that most “normal” people could imagine and actually possess as much knowledge and expertise as he did if only they would actually spend some time every day “imagining.” \nImagination\nImmediate: (594, See 88, 554, 671, in text): List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) . Use “immediate” in a sentence: \nImmediately: without delay or pause, very closely in space or time, at the same moment as, at once.\nImmoral: (1456, See 148, 193, 200, in text) Write 3 synonyms: (1)\nImmoral: (See 148, 193, 200, in text) wicked, depraved, corrupt, dissolute, decadent\nImmortality: eternal life, everlasting life, deathlessness, indestructibility, imperishability\nImmune: (448, 558) Draw a three panel comic to show the origin story of the  superhero who is immune to, or invulnerable to, fire and who saved the boy from the dragon in the activity for Word 1234, invulnerable to.\nImmune: resistant, invulnerable, protected, safe, insusceptible.\nImmune: You define it.  .\nImmutability: (1238) You define it, but make sure you write in ink, so you cannot change the definition:  .\nImmutable to: unchallengeable, absolute, unassailable, incontrovertible, indisputable\nImpact (influence/relevant in context): influence, effect, bearing, sway. \nImpassive\nImpede \nImpenetrable: (See 5, in text) incomprehensive, unclear, baffling, puzzling, perplexing\nImpertinent: (See 363, in text) insolent, impudent, impolite, discourteous, cheeky, audacious: \nImplausible\nImplicate: associate, involve, connect, include, incriminate\nImportation: (See 211, 742, in text) bring in, ship in, buy from abroad: EXAMPLE: Imported goods are often subject to an excise tax or tariff, in order to protect domestic industry. \nImpractical: (See 29, in text) unrealistic, unworkable, nonviable, absurd, impossible; many innovators are told that their ideas are impractical when they attempt to break new ground. For example, Elon Musk, an expert in Materials Science and owner of SpaceX (the first private company to launch a rocket into orbit and fully recover it and to send a spacecraft to the International Space Station) and Tesla Motors (builders of 100% electric cars that perform as well as many sports cars and are capable of going 200 miles on a charge, which is roughly equivalent to the mileage a standard car might get on one tank of gas), has recently been the target of much naysaying from those who think that his latest idea, the Hyperloop—an alternative to high speed railroads that is basically a large version of the tubes that propel canisters from inside a bank to customers who are in cars using the drive through— is too lofty and ridiculous to ever be a feasible solution for human transportation. However, Musk has proven that he is capable of ridiculous technological feats, even those which others deem impossible, so he just might be able to erect his idea of the future of transportation, which would potentially be able to travel at 750mph and might be significantly (ten times) cheaper than high speed trains if his initial estimates are correct.\nImpregnable\nImpresario: promoter, master of ceremonies (“MC”), producer of an artistic or commercial entertainment endeavor. \nImpressive: (See 104, 514, 701, 748, in text): striking, remarkable, notable, extraordinary moving. Making a deep or favorable mark on the mind of another; possessing such a character as to be memorable, noteworthy, and deserving of honor, admiration and respect.  EXAMPLE: If you have retained even ½ of the words and synonyms thus far presented to you through these packets than you have truly completed an impressive, some might say awesome feat. \nImprovident: ANTONYM: provident: imprudent, careless, reckless, negligent, irresponsible, wasteful, extravagant. \nImprovise: adlib, extemporize, contrive, impromptu, extempore: EXAMPLE: While some of the best sketch comedic work is improvisational, to maintain a comic tone for long periods of time and have a long career as a comedic actor or writer, long term planning, study and practice is necessary. \nImprudent: (See 263, 736, 823, 1268, in text) foolish, impulsive, thoughtless, improvident, shortsighted\nImpudent: bold, brazen, insolent, impertinent, rude, disrespectful, impolite. \nImpugned: criticize, dishonor, slander, smear, slur, besmirch or to cast doubt on someone’s reputation and credibility, challenge their honesty, or imply they have impure motives.  \nInaudible (cf. audible and auditory)\nIncapable: unable, lacking ability, incompetent, unskilled, uneducated, ignorant. \nInchoate: undeveloped, budding, developing, unfinished, incipient, immature, emerging, embryonic, in the early stages.\nInclude: (See 45, 578, 614, 712, 789 in text) comprise, contain, embrace, incorporate, enter\nIncompetent: (See 238, 1255, in text) inept, bungling, unskilled, amateurish, substandard\nIncomprehensible: unfathomable, inconceivable, inexplicable, impenetrable, not understandable\nIncongruities: (130, 628)  A popular theory on humor, the “Incongruity Theory”, suggests that humor is perceived at the moment that one recognizes an incongruity, something that surprises one because it seems out of place. For example, the old “can of peanuts with spring loaded snake inside” gag is funny because one expects to eat some delicious peanuts, but is instead shocked by a serpentine projectile. Haha. Because this prank is so “old hat” (trite, unoriginal, overused), it has had to be updated. In its current state, the joke consists of purchasing an obviously fake can of peanuts with the spring-loaded snake inside. However, the snake should is removed, and the can, which looks exactly like one would expect a fake peanut can to look, is filled with peanuts.\nIncongruity\nIncongruous (compare with belied): (130, 628, 1316): List three (2) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “incongruous”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).  \nIncongruous: (130): List 3 synonyms for incongruous: (1) , (2) , (3) .  \nIncongruous: inconsistent, unsuitable or odd, out of place,  incompatible, strange, weirdly out of place considering the normal and expected context\nInconsequential: of little or no value or significance, insignificant, trivial, petty, irrelevant, unimportant, menial, pedestrian.  \nInconsistent: varying, erratic, shifting, unpredictable,  ≈ fickle\nIncontinent: unable to control bowel or urinary elimination.  \nIncorporation: (See 565, 969, 1029, in text) combination, amalgamation, integration, assimilation, fusion\nIncreased: enlarged, augmented, amplified, made greater in number.\nIncubated: (754, incubator): nurtured, fostered, raised, gestated, hatched, grown.  Since you have seen the word in a related form previously, and since the word is heavily associated with academic and financial environments or regions in the United States, which have nurtured and birthed a large number of technology oriented companies, I believe it only apt to ask you to relate a story about a company, region, coaching or philosophical approach which has served as an incubator for a number of great minds, great innovators, or simply—and more importantly—great people.  EXAMPLE: Stanford in the 1990s birthed minds and social activists so numerous that it is difficult to conceive that one place could incubate so many nation and world changing people, yet Stanford in the 1990s gave all of us: Elon Musk who created PayPal, Tesla Motors, SpaceX, and Solar City; Sergei Brin and Larry Page, who founded and nurtured Google, the primary reason knowledge is available everywhere today; Jerry Yang who founded Yahoo!, and countless others examples.  \nIncubator: a place where something is nurtured or encouraged to grow. Incubators usually grow large numbers of things all at once. \nIncumbent: (See 464, in text): mandatory, obligatory, unavoidable, compulsory, inescapable. Politically, an incumbent is a person who running for office (campaigning) who already holds the office for which he or she is running. \nIncur \nIndefatigable by: (903) You define it:  .\nIndefatigable: inexhaustible, untiring, unflagging, unrelenting, determined, or ceaselessly persistent. \nIndelicate: (980) You define it:  .\nIndelicate: insensitive, vulgar, rude, inconsiderate, indecorous.\nIndifferent to: (See 3, 578, in text) uncaring, uninterested, apathetic, unsympathetic, unconcerned\nIndifferent: (1237, 1277, See 3, 578, 1406, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “indifferent” or a form of the word: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nIndifferent: (1237, See 3, 578, in text) You define it…or don’t. I don’t care.  .\nIndigenous: local, domestic, native, aboriginal, homegrown, original. \nIndigent: List 3 synonyms for indigent: (1), (2), (3).  Describe a circumstance—like on a news report—where the word “indigent” would or should be used and the person who would most likely use the word indigent. .   \nIndigent: the poor, needy, impoverished, under-privileged: a person lacking in the basic necessities of life, including food, shelter, clothing, etc. \nIndigent: You define it.  , \nIndisputable: certain, undeniable, without question, irrefutable, unarguable, incontestable, indubitable.\nIndistinguishable from:  blurry, fuzzy, vague, unintelligible, incomprehensible\nIndolent (2): lazy, lethargic, idle, slothful, see also, apathetic: indifferent, uninterested    \nIndolent:   You define it.  .\nIndolent: List 5 anonyms for and name 2 people who you would call “indolent”: List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Indolent people?: (1), (2), (3). \nIndolent: You define it.  .\nInduce: cause, produce, create, generate, trigger, foster, promote\nIndulged: (See 42, 177, 353, 391, 686, 775, in text) spoiled, pampered, cosseted, coddled, treated\nIneffable: cannot be described with words, indescribable, inexpressible; or, occasionally: overwhelming with emotion to make description of the feeling or observation difficult or impossible. \nIneffective: useless, vain, futile, fruitless, unsuccessful. EXAMPLE: We at Focused generally believe random word association, flash cards, and other traditional vocabulary learning tools are ineffective, futile, fruitless, vain, and altogether useless for long term learning and understanding.  We hope this companion helps and is at least less ineffective than other methods mentioned above. ASSIGNMENT: Tell us something that might make the companions more effective, or what you think might be even more helpful than anything that we have as of yet come up with.  We believe in you, and in your ability to teach each and every one of us to teach better in the future.  Help us!!! Email your suggestions.  \nIneffectual: incompetent, useless, hopeless, unimpressive, unsuccessful, unable to produce results\nInefficient: incompetent, unproductive, wasteful, inept, uneconomical\nInept: (See 1255, in text) incompetent, clumsy, inexpert, ineffective, inferior, lacking\nInert\nInexplicable\nInfantile: childish, juvenile, extremely immature—like an infant. \nInfant's flesh will be in season throughout the year, but more plentiful in March, and a little before and after; for we are told by a grave author, an eminent French physician, that fish being a prolific diet, there are more children born in Roman Catholic countries about nine months after Lent than at any other season; therefore, reckoning a year after Lent, the markets will be more glutted than usual, because the number of popish infants is at least three to one in this kingdom: and therefore it will have one other collateral advantage, by lessening the number of papists among us.\nInfinitesimal: extremely small, miniscule, paltry, microscopic, minute.\nInformed: (See 101, in text) knowledgeable, well-versed, conversant, up-to-date, learned\nIngenious: (See 29, 64, in text) clever, resourceful, inventive, nifty, inspired\nIngenuous (See also, belied: disingenuous) (1459, 1464): List three (2) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “ingenuous”: (1) , (2), (3), (4).\nIngenuous: (1460) When compliments are ingenuous, a snarky (rude or critical) tone may belie the intended subtext, or the nasty and insulting implications that are hidden in a backhanded comment. For example, when a girl tells another that her handmade dress is “unique,” she must be careful not to sound too disgusted or surprised, or the other girl will undoubtedly know that she meant to say “hideous,” “dreadful,” or “no one else would ever wear that.”\nIngenuous: innocent, naive, simple, frank, candid\nInglorious: shameful, dishonorable, ignominious, humiliating, demeaning: the opposite of bringing glory, inglorious brings shame, dishonor, or infamy.  Infamy, or being infamous is someone who is “famous” for bad reasons.  Infamous or inglorious figures from the past include such reprobates as Bonnie and Clyde (a murderous and bank robbing couple from the beginning of the 20th century), Al Capone (a mobster from the 20th century), and Bernard Madoff (financier, who in 2010 was caught for money laundering and running a large fraudulent investment scheme, often referred to as a Ponzi Scheme.)  Ignominious is a wonderful synonym. \nIngratiate: cultivate, flatter, schmooze, court, wheedle: EXAMPLE: Almost all students in high school would rather attempt to ingratiate themselves with their teachers than put in the hard work required to actually learn material: it is a shame that sycophants have replaced intellects as the new leaders of the educational world. \nInheriting: receiving, getting, become heir to, be left, be willed: Inheritances can be financial, genetic, cultural, or psychological when the word is used literally or loosely metaphorically.  Often times, however, inheritance can be used to mean a heritage or cultural/artistic lineage from which a person or group draws its inspiration or tenets, even if said “inheritors” are not aware of their cultural or artistic “bloodlines”. EXAMPLE: Many modern artists  are completely unaware that what they consider their most “Avant-guard” stylistic reforms in the mediums of oil painting and marble sculpture were actually inherited from the pre-classical world of ancient Egypt and Babylon.  These techniques of flat representation, and multiple perspective representation were passed down throughout the generations and always remained in the background of all artistic representations.  As a result, what “cutting edge” artists call new and innovative is actually a dusty old inheritance passed down from one generation to the next for more than three millennia.  \nInhibited: (868, See 824, in text): List 3 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “inhibited”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use the word “inhibited” in a sentence with at least one synonym and one antonym you listed above:  . \nInhibited: reserved, self-conscious, repressed, controlled, or reticent; ≈ taciturn.  Unable to seek pleasure or act freely or without guilt, worry, or true desire.  ANTONYM: hedonistic, orgiastic. \nInhospitable: unwelcoming, unfriendly, unpleasant, uninviting, harsh, hostile: an environment unsuitable or very difficult for life to flourish in.\nInimitable \nInnate: inborn, inherent, essential, intrinsic, embody, ≈ personify.\nInnocent: (See 16, 423, 967, in text): blameless, guiltless, innocuous, honest, unknowing, faultless, upright, acquitted, vindicated\nInnocuous: (206, See 1478, in text):  List at least 4 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “innocuous”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  \nInnocuous: harmless, inoffensive, bland. \nInnovate: (336, 351, 352, 1000, 1007 See 29, 184, 704, in text) revolutionize, invent, modernize, originate, renovate\nInnovation: improvement, advancement, nuance, invention. \nInnovations: You define it.  .Implement: tool, device, gadget; or, to put into use, to carry out, or put into effect. \nInnovative: (336, 351, 352, 1000, 1007, 1241, See 29, 184, 704, in text): Talk about some innovative project you would like to spend your life participating in or helping to make real.  I know I would like to participate in touchable holography as part of interactive and adaptive learning.  If you would send your paragraph on how you want to innovate to your instructor via email, that would be greatly appreciated.  The whole point of education is to inspire, innovate and share ideas.  Your email will fulfill part of that primary educational purpose: .\nInnovative: (336, 351, 352, 1000, See 29, 184, 704, in text): List 5 synonyms for “innovation”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). Define innovation: .  Describe an innovation you would like to see in your lifetime:  .\nInnovative: (336, 351, 352, See 29, 184, 704, in text): Name your favorite innovation and explain why you like it so much:  .\nInnovative: inventive, visionary, groundbreaking, revolutionary. \nInsanity: (See 184, in text) foolishness, irrationality, absurdity, folly, stupidity, unbalanced.  EXAMPLE: Many geniuses are close to mad, by conventional psychological and psychiatric definitions of insanity, as their actions and thoughts are by definition abnormal, deviant and statistically quite variant from the norm. \nInsidious: sinister, treacherous, crafty, devious, underhand\nInsolent\nInspiration: (779, See, 29, FN 2, 458, 503, 708, 743, 780, 781, 783, 861, 879, in text):  List at least 4 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “inspiration”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Use “inspiration” in a sentence:  .\nInspired (See, 29, FN 2, 458, 503, 708, 743, in text): passionate, visionary, stirred, excited, enthused, enthusiastic, brilliant, or motivated. Or beautiful work, which seems driven by a divine vision, or other super natural means.\nInstigated\nInsufferable:  intolerable, unbearable, hostile, inhospitable, excruciating, unendurable. \nIntellectual Freedom: ≈ empiricism, liberalism, progressive, progressivism, western intellectualism; \nIntellectual: (See,  445, 492): What do you believe is the least intellectual of ideas that other seem to think is just the smartest, most erudite thing in the world? THING:. EXPLANATION:.   \nIntellectualism: devotion to intellectual, academic, or artistic pursuits, “the life of the mind”; the quality of valuing empirical results, logic, and science more than strictly theoretical, mystical, or emotional systems of belief; as a philosophy, the belief that reason is the ultimate criterion of knowledge.\nIntensify\nIntent on…: set on a plan or purpose; so determined to do or get something that nothing will alter that determination. EXAMPLE: All of you who have proceeded thus far are intent on earning at least a 2300 on your SATs. \nInteraction: communication, contact, dealings, relations. \nInterchangeable: substitutable, similar, compatible, transposable, exchangeable\nInterests: concerns, issues, hobbies; or, financial returns on depository accounts: interest on a loan.\nInterfere: (See 114, 581, 945, 997, in text) inhibit, delay, restrict, affect, hinder, obstruct: \nInteriors: insides, centers, cores, depths, innards\nIntermediate: middle, midway, in-between, transitional, halfway\nIntermittent  \nInterpreted: (See 948, 1258, in text) understood, taken, construed, inferred, deduced. EXAMPLE: As we hope this set of exercises has shown, the creation of a dictionary or any lexicon, public, private or personal is at some level a matter of pure interpretation: the meanings of words changes over time, and begin to be interpreted differently.  For example, the word “radical” means at the root or base of something, at a fundamental level, or as part of an institutions or beings inherent constitution, yet from 1770 onward, “radical” change was suggested to the parliamentary system of England and the Colonies, as well as even more “radical” change to the rights and liberties of men and women in France, where absent any semblance of a Parliamentary, the “Divine Right of Kings” or the tyranny of men like Napoleon ruled the day.  As a result, the changes suggested struck at the core, base, root or foundation of government, thus making the changes “radical”.  Today, while the first definition of “radical” is still at the base or root in many dictionaries, the word itself has been more commonly interpreted to mean extreme, often vehement views intended to ferment extreme, non-majoritarian change or action in a system, government, organization, social group, society or culture.  Radical no longer means going back to core values, and the core rights of rational beings in a state of nature.  It has been interpreted to mean something far more “radical.”\nInterrogated: (914, See 788, in text) What is something you would not want to be asked if you were being interrogated?\nInterrogation: (See 788, in text): cross-examined, aggressively interviewed (usually by authorities), questioning, examination, grilled, or debriefed.\nInterviewed: questioned, conversed, <<interrogated, to talk with someone to find out a story, or about that person, or information related to some other person or event. Interviews can be casual or more serious.  Generally, they do not take on the qualities of a cross-examination or an interrogation, which are far more severe and antagonistic. \nIntimate\nIntimation: suggestion, indication, sign, inkling, insinuation, impression.\nIntolerable: inhospitable, hostile, insufferable, \nIntrepid: bold, daring, courageous, adventurous\nIntricate \nIntricate: (313, See 261, 314, 316 in text): ): List 3 synonyms of “intricate”: (1), (2), (3). Use “intricate” and “byzantine” in a sentence:  . \nIntricate: complicated, complex, detailed, byzantine, elaborate, sophisticated; ≈ convoluted, or confusing. \nIntrigue: interest, fascinate, attract, arouse, captivate\nIntroductory Calculus: MATH CROSSOVER\nIntroverted: (872) You define it: \nIntroverted: shy, reticent, taciturn, reclusive, reserved, timid, ≈ circumspect, which means, unwilling to take risks.\nInundate: You define it.  .\nInundated:  flood, swamp, overrun, overwhelm, besiege: overwhelm someone with a huge quantity of information or other things so that the person cannot handle the mass of information: to flood someone with something. \nInundation: You define it.  . \nInure: (160, 564, See 685, in text): ) List at least 3 synonyms and 1 antonyms for the word “inured”: \nInure: You define it.  .\nInured: habituated to, accustomed to, hardened to something to such a degree that it no longer has an effect. (Usually refers to becoming hardened to cold, pain, or some other unpleasant thing, and no longer noticing that it is unpleasant: calloused. \nInvalidated\nInvestors: stakeholders, shareholders, partners, financiers, venture capitalists, people who take a financial interest in someone else’s business, or project. \nInveterate: confirmed, committed, hardened, ingrained, staunch\nInvigorated: fill with life or vigor, rejuvenate. To make a person feel peppy, happy, and full of life: A cold shower is invigorating after hours in the summer heat of Arizona. \nInvite\nInvulnerable\nInvulnerable to: (1060, See 448, in text) Protect the child! Draw a superhero that is invulnerable to the dragon’s fire.\nInvulnerable: (See 448, in text) untouchable, invincible, unassailable, indestructible, unconquerable\nIrrelevant: immaterial, off topic, unrelated, not pertinent, extraneous, beside the point, off the point, skew… a tangent is often but not always irrelevant to the main point of a lesson or discussion.  \nIrrevocably: cf. revoke: irreversible, unalterable, unchangeable, immutable, binding, peremptory\nIsland chain: archipelago, a group of islands.  \nIsland: (context, isolated: no man is an island.. etc. etc.): To be isolated, alone or without help, resources or feelings of hope.  Occasionally, calling someone “an island” can mean that the person is self-sufficient. \nIsolate: (See 237, 409, 759, in text) separate, insulate, quarantine, seclude, sequester: Contextually, bans on imports or embargoes tend to economically isolate nations, and can decimate economies and start wars. EXAMPLE: The War if 1812 between the United States and England was started, at least in part, by a British blockade of U.S. ports which isolated the U.S. economically and severely hampered U.S. trade and economic stability.  \nItinerant: travelling from place to place, particularly for work. Your itinerary is the list of places you will be travelling to.  peripatetic, wandering,  roaming, rootless, ≈ nomadic. P.S.: I love peripatetic, as it relates to being a travelling philosopher, or thinker, giving lectures as one travels from place to place, being… you guessed it didactic. \nJargon: terminology, lingo, slang, argot, gobbledygook\nJatiyo Sangsad Bhaban (the Parliament House of Bangladesh) by Louis Kahn\nJingoistic: extreme patriotism, nationalism which is actually hostile to all other nations. \nJocular: playful, light in spirit, enjoying jokes or jesting (fun and games); jolly, jocund, funny, humorous, jovial. \nJovial: cheerful, jolly, mirthful, cheery, merry, happy.  Think jolly old St. Nick—the one in Macy’s at the mall, not the one from Raskolnikov’s first dream in Crime and Punishment. It’s a book by Dostoyevsky: the scene I am referring to, if read in the best translations or in the original Russian is hysterically funny, but far from jovial by any stretch of the imagination.   \nJovial: List 3 synonyms for and name 2 people who you would call “Jovial”: (1), (2), (3).  Jovial people? (1), (2), (3). \nJovian: USELESS WORD ALERT. WOOOOOAAAOOO! USELESS WORD ALERT!!! Like the Greek god Zeus, or the Roman god Jupiter, a fictional inhabitant of the planet Jupiter.  I put the word in only because it looked like jovial and I was hoping to have someone jump at the word for that reason. I did not actually think anyone would.  Many of you have proven me wrong. Booooh!\nJunta: regime, revolutionaries, usurpers, rulers who take over after a coup, usually military leaders; a secret group of military leaders, who attempt to take over a government.  \nJustified\nJuxtaposed: to place two or more things together to emphasize differences or links between the things.  Usually to contrast things that are not usually contrasted. Also often used to indicate an irony ( when the literally meaning is the exact opposite of the contextual or intended meaning.) \nKeen: (172, 962, See 75, 87, 178, 508, 656, 664, 728, 960, 1384, in text): List three synonyms of the word “keen”:                (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and ‘keen” in one sentence below:  . \nKeen: List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... Use “keen” in a sentence: . \nKeen: sensitive to minor differences details distinctions, Wolverine has a keen sense of smell. Sharp in all ways: intense, biting, acute, sharp, enthusiastic, lively, intelligent.  Keen, depending on context, can mean each of these things.  \nKnaves: mountebank, charlatan, scallywag, swindler, scoundrel, scamp. EXAMPLE: The eponymous heroes of the picaresque novels The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling and Don Juan are without questions lascivious, roguish, and quite often guileful, but the neither Don Juan nor Tom Jones is truly a knave in the worst sense of the word: neither ever meant any true harm by their actions, but both were cunning and deceitful in matters of the heart.  \nLabor Union\nLabors: work, toil, effort, profession, dedicated work.  Labor does not have the same slightly negative connotation (pejorative connotation) that toil, grind, drudgery, or tedium all share.  Some might not like labor—it is work after all; however, the fruits of one’s labor are often greater knowledge, personal satisfaction, reasonable living conditions, and maybe even making something beautiful. \nLabyrinthine: complicated, intricate, convoluted, complex, tortuous: EXAMPLE: Sometimes writing these companions has me feeling that I am locked in a labyrinthine of didacticism, history, pedagogy, lexicography, and occasional pedantry: it has been a byzantine project, to say the least… I wonder that I do not often hear the footsteps of a Minotaur approaching, as I type late into the evening.  ASSIGNMENT: Explain why I might hear a “Minotaur” while exploring a Labyrinthine world???  \nLack: (See 44, 49, 77, 139, 158, 163, 167, 195, 204, 212, 231, 238, 244, 257, 262, 339, 361, 369, 423, 454, 694, in text): absence, deficiency, dearth, privation, or shortage.\nLacked\nLacked: (893, 1148 See 44, 49, 77, 139, 158, 163, 167, 195, 204, 212, 231, 238, 244, 257, 262, 339, 361, 369, 423, 454, 694, in text) Draw a picture in the box below of something you lack, or of someone lacking.  Be sure to make it obvious what is lacking. \nLacking: (893, See 44, 49, 77, 139, 158, 163, 167, 195, 204, 212, 231, 238, 244, 257, 262, 339, 361, 369, 423, 454, 694, in text): List at least 5 synonyms of “economic”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7). \nLackluster\nLackluster: (963) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7)\nLackluster: unenthused, blasé, uninspired, half-hearted, lacking effort. \nLaconic: (330, See 27, 337, 249, 251, 511, in text) Give 3 synonys: (1),\nLaconic: terse, short, brief, curt, incisive, to the point, economic speech, prose or other writing, using few words.  You should know this word; it has been used in multiple earlier definitions. \nLaden: loaded, full, packed, stuffed, crammed\nLagged: flagged, trailed, fall behind, dawdled, loitered, lingered\nLambasted\nLambasted: attacked, criticized, derided, abused, or condemned. EXAMPLE: Noah Webster was said to have educated five generations of Americans—the generations raised from 1786 to 1840—with his Blueback Speller; however, more conservative elements in the nation began to lambast Webster’s Speller by 1840, claiming that it encouraged radicalism, revolution, and might even lead to a civil war: as a result Webster’s English language education primer, which simplified all of grammar and pronunciation into a single 170 page volume, began to lose favor in United States educational institutions, and was completely replaced nationwide by 1890, when the rise of populist and socialist movements in America began to be seen as the result of permissive elementary and grammar school education. \nLanguage: (See 79, 104, 105, 227, 249, 251, 365, 513, 614, 714, in text) wording, terminology, phraseology, expressions, vocabulary\nLanguid: (See 605, in text) unhurried, relaxed, languorous, indolent, lethargic\nLascivious: lecherous, lewd, licentious, salacious, prurient: Here, the word is synonymous with deviant or excessive interest in all things lewd or licentious, and as such discussion is untoward (not appropriate or fitting for discussion) in a text such as this one, we will again defer to the most famously eponymous lexicographer and his unparalleled ability to craft clear, prudent—and resultantly often euphemistic—definitions.  From Webster’s 1828 Ed.:\nLassitude: weary, tired, listless, apathetic, lethargic. \n	Later on, in the 18th century, frigates began to be built as long as “ships of the line,” but even with 28 mounted guns, these frigates were still considered lightly armed, and they mostly served as escorts or patrol ships. However, in the late 19th century, as countries began building ironclad warships (ships that were built of metal and therefore relatively heavily armored compared to wooden warships of the past), armored frigates, which kept the name frigate because all of the guns were mounted on a single deck, became the most powerful and versatile warships on the seas for quite some time. In fact, armored frigates, rather than “ships of the line” became the model on which most modern warships were based, especially after advances in weaponry made longer range warfare at sea possible and ships no longer had to sail directly past each other in order to attack.\nLauded: (599, See 491, 493, 923, in text): Distinguish between laudatory and praiseworthy and write a sentence using each word correctly:  .\nLauded: praised, extolled, acclaimed, glorified, applauded.\nLaurel Wreath: symbol of victory, or highest athletic ability, offered as the award for the champion of the original ancient Greek Olympics; also occasionally associated (miss-associated) with a peace offering or representing peace; the real and accurate association should be to: “offering the olive branch”: making a peace offering.  Usage, however, has been in error in a number of major publications.  \nLavish\nLavish:  (583, 696 See 460, 516, 699, in text) You have been given free rein (complete liberty) to plan your next birthday party. Describe an event that would satisfy your most lavish desires, making sure to include all of the extravagant details. \nLavish: (583): List 3 synonyms for lavish: (1) , (2) , and (3) .  Name something you consider lavish: .\nLavish: opulent, rich, extravagant, profligate, wasteful, immoderate, unrestrained.\nLazy: (See 2, 177, in text) indolent, idle, lethargic, languid, sluggish: List three synonyms of the word “lazy”:                (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms in one sentence below:  . \nLearned: as an adjective, if a person is learned he is educated. \nLearned: List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4).  Draw a picture of your favorite “learned person.” Have fun. Don’t forget the glasses!!!\nLegerdemain: deftness, adroitness, nimbleness, handiness, agility\nLegislature: congress, parliament, senate, council\nLengthy: (See 88, 371, 635, in text) long, prolonged, extended, protracted, long-winded\nLexicography: the writing, studying, and editing of dictionaries.  Noah Webster was the first great American Lexicographer, creating the largest most impressive dictionary in the world, his 1840 two volume 70,000 Webster’s dictionary masterpiece.  The 1840 dictionary was Webster’s third venture into lexicography.  His first was in 1806, when he published his Compendious Dictionary of the English Language. This first dictionary was likely Webster’s most libertine of lexicographical projects, although his 1828 dictionary is noted for its extremely clear and period appropriate definitions of words like “Constitution,” “Natural Liberty,” and “Civil Liberty”: Terms Webster defined as follows:\nLexicon: (1072) Define “lexicon”:.  Name your favorite lexicon..  Has this assignment helped you improve your personal lexicon? (Recall: a lexicon can also be someone personal store of words).  List 20 words and two synonyms for each, from memory, to show off your improved personal lexicon: \nLexicon: (1072, 1079): List the five words you simply love, which you have recently added to your own personal lexicon: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  \nLiberate: release, free, unshackle, emancipate, unfetter, unburden. \nLicensing:  certifying, giving permission, permitting, allowing, authorizing. \nLightweight: not heavy, insubstantial\nLimpid: clear, lucid, transparent; expressing something in a way that is clear and easy to understand: limpid prose. \nLineage: ancestry, heritage, pedigree, descent, line, parentage. \n\nList: 	tilt, lean, wobble, pronate, occasionally to spin out of control, to turn over; a ship that is sinking will “list” or turn on its side; a space ship can list, or spin out of control. Or, a series of related words, numbers or other data, usually ordered. “grocery list.”\nLiteral: (See 28, 118, 765, in text) straightforward, plain, exact, unembellished, authentic: ANTONYM: Figuratively, or metaphorically, or ironically.  Irony occurs when the literal meaning is the exact opposite of the intended meaning. \nLiterary: (101): Define “Literary”:  .\nLiterature: (1072, 1079): List 3 synonyms of “Literature”: (1), (2), (3).  \nLittered: scattered, strewed, filled, packed, cluttered\nLiving Conditions:  the habitability, quality or standard set of circumstances that influence quality of life. EXAMPLE: Possessing no running water, sewage, heat or a stable food source, the living conditions of the earthquake refugees was deplorable.  \nLoathed: detested, despised, hated, abhorred, reviled, deplored. \nLocution: the manner or way in which someone speaks or expresses himself; OR a phrase or expression. An utterance (something said) that is meant to be taken out of context.  In this sentence, the professor made exaggerated single statements which out of context made a point, but which in context made little sense because they were so exaggerated. \nLonged for: ached, desired, yearned, wanted, wished, hoped for, and hankered.  Name someone or something for whom/which you once longed, but for whom/which you no longer care.  Then, describe how you view the obsessive nature of your past longing, now that you no longer long for that someone or something. \nLongtime: longstanding, inherent. Remaining in in a station or position for a long period of time. \nLook back at entry 29 “visionary” and its footnote. Clearly, the word “visionary” has become part of this education debate. This word and its two definitions are emblematic of what is at stake: Do you want to think of “visionaries” as the Encarta-Websters-Microsoft dictionary would like you to think of them, as irrational dreamers? Or would you prefer to think of a visionary the way Google’s dictionary would like you to think about them: as the leaders of the next generation of innovation, progress, and societal advance?  \nLoose; wanton; lewd; lustful; as lascivious men; lascivious desires; lascivious eyes.\nLoquacious: (275) You define it, and do so in an overly loquacious manner.  .\nLoquacious: talkative, garrulous, chatty. \nLosses: (in context losses refers to money “lost” by a business): the difference between revenue and costs for a business are losses, when costs are more than revenue, that negative revenue represents a loss. Other Contexts: casualties (deaths) in war.   \nLouis Kahn: Louis Kahn was a famous architect during the third quarter of the 20th century.  His works were famous for their meticulous attention to detail, their “back to basics” (some might say block-like) esthetics, and symmetry. \nLoyalty: (See 551, in text) faithfulness, devotion, allegiance, constancy, steadfastness\nLucid: (1073, 1080, See 473, 486, 488, in text) Give a lucid description of something you have found especially beautiful lately; make sure you describe it so clearly that someone else can almost see it.  .\nLucid: (1073, See 473, 486, 488, in text): List at least 4 synonyms for lucid, and then two synonyms for each of the original four (4) synonyms.  Your goal in this assignment is to migrate the meaning of lucid as far away from the original definition as possible by using synonyms.  This exercise will aid you in “turning the question” in your essays: \nLucid: (See 473, 486, 488, in text) simple, plain, sound, articulate, clear\nLugubrious: doleful, morose, sad, woeful, dismal\nLunar Body: moons other than earth’s moon. \nLunar: (796): Name three things that you would call lunar or associated with the moon: 1), (2), (3).  \nLurid: (See 712, in text) intense, sensational, unrestrained, graphic, explicit\nLuxurious\nMachination: intrigue, plotting, maneuvering, scheming, planning\nMagical: enchanted, mystical, divine, heavenly, or inspirational. \nMagnanimous: generous, giving, kind, noble, upright, kind, heroically good and self-sacrificing. \nMagnanimous: List at least 3 synonyms: (1)               , (2)          , (3)         , (4)            .\nMagnanimous: You define it.  ,\nMaim: mutilate, harm, disfigure, harm, hobble, deface, or mar. \nMaintained: upheld, preserved, kept, continued, sustained\nMajestic: (See 701, in text) regal, grandiose, stately, magnificent, distinguished, dignified and impressive. Often things that are described as majestic are imbued with a grandeur and magnificence that leaves one if not in awe, at least amazed, impressed and often feeling honored. \nMajority: large portion, most. \nMalapropisms (See,  in text, 101): Malapropisms are “diction errors”, grammar errors that occur when a person mistakes one word for another word that sounds the intended word.  Usually, a malapropism (or malapropos) is comic, amusing, or really silly to someone who understands the error. EXAMPLES OF DICTION from past SATs include: (1) imminent and eminent; (2) proceed and precede; (3) collaborate and corroborate; examples we have used have included: (4)  lurid and lucid; (5) probation and opprobrium (condemnation, scorn, criticism); (6) mental fortitude and mental fortification; (7) empathic and emphatic; (8) jurisdiction and jurisprudence; (9) attention and attentiveness, (10)  adulthood and adultery, (11) precessess and process, (12) auditory and audible, AND (13) correctly and correctively, just to name a few. (Read the footnote, if you’re confused, then follow where it leads you for help. Footnotes are like clues in a text, not just annoying things teachers try to trick you with on lame pop quizzes.)\nMalcontent: discontented, disgruntled, dissatisfied, unhappy, complaining ~=misanthrope\nMalevolent: evil, malicious, wicked, spiteful, vindictive, having only bad or evil intentions. \nMalodorous: foul-smelling, fetid, rank, putrid, noxious\nManeuverability\nManner: the way, method, style or custom by which something is normally done; or, the habit or usual custom; or, refinement and fashion which defines suitable behavior. \nMany other advantages might be enumerated. For instance, the addition of some thousand carcasses in our exportation of barreled beef, the propagation of swine's flesh, and improvement in the art of making good bacon, so much wanted among us by the great destruction of pigs, too frequent at our tables; which are no way comparable in taste or magnificence to a well-grown, fat, yearling child, which roasted whole will make a considerable figure at a lord mayor's feast or any other public entertainment. But this and many others I omit, being studious of brevity.\nMarine\nMarshy: swampy, boggy, a mire or quagmire.  (See, in text, 673.)\nMartha Graham: Influential choreographer and dancer, who was a major participant in the Harlem Renaissance, and whose work was compared to Picasso’s art work, and who was part of Picasso’s intellectual circles. \nMascot: symbol or representative as in a school mascot (often a student in a large fuzzy suit), talisman, amulet, periapt\nMassive\nMaster: (510, See 353, 661, 728, in text): ) List 3 synonyms of “master”: (1), (2), (3).  \nMasterpiece: chef-d'oeuvre, work of art, magnum opus, masterwork, showpiece: A work of great intellectual, technical, and artistic skill, exhibiting unusual prowess, yet delicate refinement.  Even the greatest of masters have at most a few dozen works created over a lifetime which they might call “masterpieces”. More often, even a great master of a discipline has only one or two true masterpieces, if he or she has any at all. \nMastery: expert knowledge, outstanding skill, complete understanding and command of a subject matter. \nMaterials Science: A field of science that involves studying materials at their atomic level in order to better understand or predict the macroscopic properties of materials (the strength, elasticity, and durability) that are used in building and technology. Since many of the barriers to better technology are the limits imposed by material properties, this science may be the key to making the next generation of truly groundbreaking advancements. For example, materials scientists are involved in the development of composite materials, which combine different materials in order to utilize or enhance the physical properties of both materials (steel-reinforced concrete or reinforced carbon-carbon, which is a thin laminate that coats spacecraft and protects from temperatures as high as 2700 °F upon reentry to the Earth’s atmosphere). Another example of a newly available material is grapheme, a one-atom thick sheet of graphite, which is composed of carbon atoms in a honeycomb lattice. Graphene is a semiconductor, so it may be used to produce solar cells, flexible touch-screen electronics, or even e-paper that could display interactive and updatable information.\nMaudlin: mawkish, saccharine, lachrymose, sentimental, emotional: treacly, sappy, overly sentimental or emotionally, often as a result of inebriation. \nMaverick: (1170, See 94, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “maverick” or a form of the word: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nMavericks:  (See 94, in text) nonconformists, individualists, eccentrics, dissidents, rebel\nMawkish: maudlin, overemotional, sentimental, soppy, weepy: \nMaximize: exploit, use to your greatest advantage. \nMeandering: wandering, undirected, roaming  in reference to conversation meandering implies circumlocution: slow or tortured speech, which is not professional, direct or pointed. \nMediating: (See 970, in text) arbitrating, interceding, facilitating, negotiating, resolving\nMediocre\nMediocre: average, unordinary, unexceptional, run-of-the-mill, pedestrian\nMeditative: (1187, See 781, in text) List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4). Use “meditative” in a sentence with the word “aesthetic(s).”: .\nMeditative: (See 781, in text) thoughtful, reflective, contemplative, pensive, introspective\nMelodies: (See, 263, in text, melodious, euphonious, sweet sounding): tunes, songs, airs, strains, or descants. cf. harmonies, compliments to melodies. \nMenagerie\nMenially\nMentees: people who have mentors.   \nMentor: guide, counselor, guru, leader, teacher, adviser.\nMercurial: changeable, unpredictable, fickle, volatile, inconstant. The word takes its meaning from the Roman name for the Greek messenger god Hermes. Mercury and Hermes were both gods of commerce, trickery, flattery, thievery and disguise: whether through words or actions, both were ever changing, shifting to fit the moment, and whatever position might offer either of them the greatest gain. Commerce, merchant, merchandise all find their origin in the god Mercury, and his ever changing, mercurial nature to encourage, deceive, swindle and grow through trade and communication.   \nMere: (235, See 14, 86, 556, in text): List 3 synonyms of “mere”: (1), (2), (3).  Use “mere” in a sentence:  . \nMerely Sardonic: merely here has a meaning that is somewhat odd, it really implies that the author was not only sarcastic and mean spirited in a mocking way, but that he was EXCESSIVELY so.  Occasionally, a word that should lessen or intensify another word can have the opposite effect if the tone of the passage is itself sarcastic, understated, or euphemistic (sort of.) \nMerge: (See 376, in text) combine, unite, join, amalgamate, fuse\nMerger: union, fusion, blend, the act of legally joining two companies.\nMess:  (416): ): List five (5) synonyms for “finesse”: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “mess” in a sentence, which also includes an antonym of “mess”:   .\nMess: 	untidy, muddle, disrupt, clutter, jumble, disorder, disarray. \nMetalloid: a nonmetallic element with many metallic and non-metallic properties. Examples: silicon, arsenic, germanium, tellurium, antimony, etc.  \nMeticulous\nMeticulous: (1681): List three synonyms of the word “meticulous”: (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and “meticulous” in one sentence below:  . \nMeticulousness: thoroughness, diligence, care, scrupulousness, precision: \nMetropolises: (1200): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “metropolises”: \nMetropolitan: city, urban, municipal, civic, cosmopolitan\nMiddling: average, not unusual, ordinary, regular, typical, run of the mill, dull, ≈ insipid, vapid, tiresome, trite. \nMillennium: One thousand (1,000) year period.   \nMinimal: small amount, negligible, nominal, lowest amount possible, trifling. \nMinimalist: (175, See 184, 334, 621 in text): List 3 separate synonyms of “minimalist”: (1), (2), (3). Use “minimalist” in a sentence: . \nMiniscule: (403; see also, in text, 405 and 467): List three synonyms and then draw something miniscule. (1), (2) , (3) .  Draw something miniscule in the box provided: \nMiniscule: a very small amount, tiny, minute, infinitesimal, microscopic. \nMinute: very small amount; miniscule, infinitesimal, miniature, tiny  ≈ minutia (plural minutiae),  a noun that means a piece of information that is trifling, trivial, unimportant, petty, insignificant, inconsequential, irrelevant.\nMisanthrope: (96, 246, 331, See 234, in text) You define it. . Name a famous misanthrope, explain why he or she was a misanthrope, then email a picture of said misanthrope to your FC instructor after you complete this question, explaining why you are sending the email. \nMisanthrope: You define it, or name and describe your favorite misanthrope.  .\nMisanthropes: (96, 246, 331, 947, See 234, in text) Circle the misanthrope.\nMisanthropic (misanthrope): a hatred and distrust of all people, which usually leads to the misanthrope avoiding all people, and living a life as a hermit. Lil’ Sam Guttman said she was a misanthrope, then Stacy (my wondrous wife) helped her with her reading and writing and vocabulary, then Lil’ Sam Guttman became a happy and often even jovial person, but only when at Focused, or at least that was what she told us last we saw her.  Hi, Sam!\nMisanthropic: (96, 246, 331, 947, 1164, 1304, See 234, in text) Here is another quote from a famous misanthrope, Samuel Johnson, whose Dictionary of the English Language was published in 1755 and remained the preeminent British Dictionary until the publishing of the Oxford English Dictionary 150 years later: “I hate mankind, for I think myself one of the best of them, and I know how bad I am.” \nMisanthropic: You define it.  .\nMisanthropy: (96, 246, 331, 947, 1164, See 234, in text) Here is a quote by one of my favorite misanthropes, Bill Hicks: “I believe that there is an equality to all humanity. We all suck.” \nMiserly: stingy, greedy, cheap, skinflint, penny-pinching, tightfisted, parsimonious, close-fisted, tight, a tightwad. \nMisers: (307, See 274, in text)) You define it: \nMisguided: mistaken, foolish, unwise, ill-advised, injudicious, imprudent, << deranged, delusional.\nMisinterpretations: misunderstanding, a failure to correctly comprehend the meaning of words related in the order they were related.  EXAMPLE: Many of you originally misinterpreted reading passages on the SAT and other standardized tests because your vocabulary was inadequate to correctly translate words in passages and questions into a “language” that you could understand; however, after proceeding (not preceding) more than 50 pages into this interactive vocabulary workbook companion, misinterpretation should no longer be an issue for you on almost any reading section.  Furthermore, if you complete this entire companion (twice, or maybe every 6-12 weeks for a year) your vocabulary should be so thorough and varied that not only will standardized tests seem simple, but the world in general will also view you differently when you speak and write: “they” will see you as erudite, even pedagogical or professorial. END EXAMPLE: PEP-TALK ☺   \nMisleading: (See 18, 268, in text) deceptive, ambiguous, confusing, disingenuous, misrepresentative\nMissing\nMitigate (Antonym): alleviate, lessen, moderate; ≈ ameliorate, to make better, or improve. \nMitigate: (69, 531, 555, 606, See 68, 73, 462, 642, in text): List three synonyms of the word “mitigate”:                	(1) , (2) , (3) . Use “mitigate” and two of its synonyms in a sentence; try to use a comma or a colon to clarify the definition of mitigate with its synonyms:  .\nMitigate: (69, 531, 555, 606; see also, in text: 68, 73, 462): Mitigate some problem in your life, as best you can, meaning: don’t fight, complain, act out, or resent the problem, but, instead, do your best to lessen its effects on you and those you care most about.  One option is to study very hard for your SATs, actually try enjoying this work—smile, laugh, remember this is an easy test compared to the ones in your life you will have to “take”—and earn enough points to go to college for free for four years. (Cost of Harvard, or any other private college is roughly $60,000 a year, prior to any “luxuries”, like dinner out, clothes, etc. or ≈ $250,000; and while this test won’t earn you an Ivy education for free—no academic scholarships—plenty of other fine institutions will pay you to attend, and mitigate the costs of your education if you show them high numbers on this test… Where else can you earn $250,000 in 6-24 weeks as a 16 year old?  Mitigate away, kids! MITIGATE!)\nMitigate: List 3 synonyms for mitigate: (1), (2), (3).  Describe a time when you mitigated a bad situation, such as an argument or disagreement.\nMitigate: Think of a political figure that you think should be called “The Great Mitigator”, and describe why you think this is a fitting title (one specific example is fine):  .\nMitigating: you already know what mitigate means, and this is just the adjective form, used to describe anything that either lessens the severity or a situation or condition or justifies an action that is normally not justifiable except under extreme circumstances: Due to the mitigating circumstances, New Jersey decided to effectively change the date of Halloween after Hurricane Sandy devastated most seaside towns shortly before the annual holiday. \nModerates: (See, 69, 176, 462, 955, in text): tempers, lessens, ameliorates, curbs, restrains, regulates, subdues, mediate; Or, reasonable, middle of the road, average, not polemical, zealous, vehement, emphatic or partisan. \nModeration: (See 176, in text) restraint, control, temperance, self-discipline, self-command\nModicum: fragment, measure, morsel, shred, iota, particle: A small amount. \nMollified: Please! Please! Please! Will all of you learn this word! Please!  It has been used so many times on the test recently and has occurred so many times in our list of words and questions, that there are no more conceivable exercises one could…well, conceive to help you recall the meaning of the word.  Please, we are begging you… Jules is begging you… Mollify us, make us happy, placate Jules… he really wants you to learn the meaning of the word too, and may cry if you don’t learn it.  Or, worse yet, if he is not mollified, he can be an angry lion when angry:  See:\nMollified: You’ve seen this several times now. If you know this word: loudly yell out your favorite synonym. If you somehow do not know this word yet: bang your head against your desk repeatedly, and use and icepack to mollify your headache.\nMollify: (522, 530, 563, 575, 597):  With such effusive repetition of the word “mollify” throughout this assignment, it would seem appropriate that you “mollify” your instructors, by assuring them that you know what the word means. Express yourself in such a way that no uncertainty could possibly remain regarding your understanding of the meaning of the word “mollify”: Please use the box below for said expression: \nMollify: (522, 530, 563, 575, 597, 637 See 520, 536, 639, 977 in text: placate, pacify, calm, assuage, alleviate, appease, soothe, quell, conciliate, propitiate, mitigate\nMollify: alleviate, palliate, ease, lighten, assuage, placate, pacify, quell, appease.\nMollify: You define it.  .\nMollifying: List 3 things that may mollify a wailing baby’s grief: (1), (2), (3).\nmore like family than a teacher: in context, this should be a huge clue for you.  Bells and whistles should go off in your head, and you should realize all at once that some word that means something familial (relating to the family), tender (kind), or endearing (warm feelings toward someone) is what you will want in a sentence.  In a sense, you want someone who you would think of as a favorite uncle or aunt.  Someone, avuncular.  We all love that word don’t we? I know I loved it since I was a little kid, and I first heard it and thought—Well, at least that won’t be tough to remember; it sounds like uncle. \nMorning vs. Mourning: This answer choice is a trick. Morning is a time of day, while mourning is an expression of deep sorrow or bereavement. The answer will lure in those who do not realize that “mourning” is a differently spelled homophone of “morning” and not an odd British spelling of the same word.\nMortality: humanity, death, transience, impermanence, ephemerality\nMortify:  shame, humiliation, embarrassment, degradation, horrified: to experience something that makes one so ashamed, or embarrassed that he or she would rather die than continue experiencing the feeling. I always felt the word meant more like someone was so shocked or embarrassed by an act witnessed or which befell him (by accident, or because he did something naughty, expected no one to find out, and everyone found out) that he wished he could “die” on the spot. \nMovement\nMummification: to make a mummy, wrap in cloth and dehydrate a body to preserve it: usually associated with Egyptian burial rituals for Pharaohs and other ancient dignitaries (rich/sort of important people.)  \nMundane\nMurals: artwork, illustrations, depiction, images always painted on walls, usually in public places. A mural differs from a fresco in that a fresco is always painted on fresh plaster.  The most famous frescos in the world—which are also murals—are the Sistine Chapel ceiling painted by Michelangelo and The School of Athens by Raphael. \nMuse:  to consider, ponder, cogitate, contemplate, ruminate, meditate on, recollect, or deliberate.  inspiration, usually a person who inspires, referring to a Greek god/mythical collection of figures, The Nine Muses who were said to inspire all of the written art forms, including song, history, astronomy, physics, poetry, drama, and comedy.  \nMUSICAL INTERLUDE\nMyopic: (1220, See 825, in text)  Most of you who wear glasses are myopic or short sighted, literally; the way the word myopic is used more often on most standardized tests, in newspapers, magazines and other published articles, however, is far more metaphoric. : List three (3) synonyms for the metaphoric meaning of “myopic” :\nMyopic: (See 825, in text) narrow-minded, bigoted, prejudiced, intolerant, parochial\nMystical: (See, 492 & 783, in text): magical, otherworldly, spiritual, supernatural, or transcendent (superior in quality, or beyond the normal limits of experience or knowledge; independent of the world.)\nMystifying: (785, See, 492 & 783, in text): List 3 separate synonyms of “mystifying”: (1), (2), (3). Use “mystifying” in a sentence:  . \nMythical: (See 665, 781, in text) fabled, imaginary, fictitious, fantasy, nonexistent  \nNaïve:  	inexperienced, youthful, innocent, lacking in knowledge of the world, or lacking in understanding or appreciation of others potentially nefarious motives, or use of guile or deceit. \nName a place, person, or organization that you believe is so dedicated to nurturing the minds, consciences, ethics and ethos of people that it is now or will be an remembered for its ability to incubate the best and most influential minds and organizations of your generation.  . Now, describe how this “entity” incubates minds, ethics, work habits or whatever other skills you believe are worth nurturing:    .\nNarrative art: any form of writing or oral tradition that tells a story. Although reading is done with the eyes, the visual aesthetics of narrative art are not important (just plain words on a page most of the time) as they are in visual art.\nNarratives: writing/prose possessed of a voice, point of view, perspective and plot arc linked to one individual or one set of ideas/point of view. \nNascent: when something is young or first born, it is nascent. EXAMPLE: The nascent business venture. \nNational borders (historic first occurrence, evolution then on)\nNaturalistic: (739, See 28, 125, 404, 542, 729, 735 in text): List 3 separate synonyms of “naturalistic”: (1), (2), (3). Use “naturalistic” in a sentence:  . \nNauseated\nNearly: almost. \nNebulous: cloudy, indistinct, vague, hazy, unclear, ≈ occluded, but occluded means to actually obstruct something or stop something\nNegligence: (See 175, 264, in text) carelessness, inattention, abandon, disregard, slackness\nNemesis: opponent, rival, archrival, archenemy, foil, ≈ antagonist. \nNeologisms: coinages, buzzwords, new word, vogue word: EXAMPLE: Since 1961, there have only been about 5,000 new words added to the more than 1,000,000 words found in the English language, a dramatic decline in the rate of neologisms annually added to the English lexicon. \nNeophyte: novice, beginner, tenderfoot, newcomer, greenhorn: Novices and other initiates to disciplines.  EXAMPLE: It would appear that modern life keeps individuals so busy that almost all modern individuals of great education would seem neophytes compared to the accomplished polymaths and polyglots of the 19th century.  Perhaps more leisure would indeed produce more production… who knows???\nNepotistic (Nepotism):  favoritism, partiality or bias, particularly in hiring, or promotion in an organization based on blood relations.  (A boss hires his son, cousin, and daughter, and promotes his relatives inappropriately over other workers: nepotism: \nNeurotics: anxious, fearful, phobic, disturbed, irrational\nNo one has a chance of understanding modern conflicts of ideas, cultures, classes, races and societies without firmly understanding the near continual 100 years of revolution which the 19th Century entailed.  Below are some of the inventions which came to us from the 19th century. \nNominal: insignificant, trifling, of small value, minimal, paltry, “a peppercorn.”\nNonchalant\nNon-factor: someone irrelevant, someone lacking significance or utility in a competition or perceived comparison. \nNon-native: foreign, not indigenous, imported, strange. \nNormalize: (See 130, 305, 555, 569, 608, 620, 630, 785, 844, in text) regularize, standardize, stabilize, control, regulate\nNostalgic: (See, 33, in text): longing for the past, a mixed feeling of fondness, longing, and emptiness (sadness), experienced when someone recalls or reminisces about past events, places, or the people associated with those past places and events. \nNostologically (lure word, not SAT relevant save as a lure): having to do with medical treatment of the nose or sinuses. THIS WORD IS USELESS.  If you every see it, LAUGH VERY, VERY, VERY HARD!!!  ☺\nNotable: distinguished, prominent, famous, noteworthy, outstanding\nNOTE\nNOTE: As many of you who are now making your way through this first set of companions to the Focused Vocabulary Workbook may have noticed, the above has discussed Noah Webster, his dictionaries and speller, as well as his evolving political positions and how those evolving positions were reflected in his works, and the course of education in the United States.  This discussion is in part happenstance, as we here at Focused are all working together on a dictionary of sorts, discussion of lexicography and its history seem natural.  As the first and perhaps greatest of American lexicographers, Webster deserves discussion; however, Webster’s preeminence is not the primary reason for his prominence in this chapter of the Focused Vocabulary Workbook Companion. Currently, new reforms in education are taking place.  The nature and type of education of the next 3-4 generations of United States youth are at stake.  The way words are defined will be important. \nNote: If a person’s psyche is destabilized, that person could be said to be unhinged. \nNoteworthy\nNourished\nNovel (new and book)\nNovelist\nNovice: neophyte, beginner, rookie, learner, trainee\nNow discuss a time when confidence, or complete ignorance, dominated your psyche when you should have been more reserved and diffident about your statements and actions, particularly considering your experience, skills and age. (This one should be easy for most of you, especially the boys… ):\nNow use the word “edifying” in a sentence which references your above description.\n	Now, finally, for your assignment: Take three (3) of the diction errors above and write funny “malapropisms” that misuse the words in context to make a risqué or comic error (faux pas).  Then destroy the joke you just made by explaining it.  Just to help you out, I will give you an example of how to do the assignment based on a funny student malapropism reported to me by my 10th Grade History Teacher, Mr. Bryer, at Holmdel High School in 1988.  Mr. Bryer reported that in a student’s report which, supposedly read as follows:\nNuance: (133, 220, See 351, 728, in text) Try to write a paragraph about a dystopian society, which describes some of the positive and seemingly faultless aspects of the cities, people, or government, but also subtly implies that there is something dubious about the façade of perfection.\nNuanced: Describe a situation in which nuance was vital for someone to understand something, or when you first appreciated a nuance.  .\nNuanced: something possessed of fine or subtle distinction, slight differences in tone or meaning; skillful ability to create such subtleties or shades of meaning and detail in a work of artistic expression (book, movie, performance, song, mime act, whatever.)  \nNumbed by\nNumerous: (See 867, in text) many, frequent, plentiful, abundant, copious \nNurtured: (754, See 112, 753, 866, 867, 879, in text): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “nurtured”: \nNurtured: (See, 112, and 753, above, both in text): encourage, foster, aid growth, help develop. \nOafs: louts, boors, barbarians, Neanderthals, churls, bumpkins. Someone who is clumsy, unintelligent, lacking in culture and or poise.  The word is usually used as an epithet.  Below is a picture of an oaf: \nOasis: (METAPHORIC): refuge, haven, retreat, sanctuary, shelter, harbor\nObdurate: stubborn, obstinate, inflexible, pig-headed.\nObfuscation: complication, confusion, muddying, clouding, smokescreen, something that intentionally or accidentally blocks, clouds, or distorts one’s understanding or view.\nObjective\nObjective: (See 985, in text) impartial, detached, neutral, unbiased, unprejudiced\nObscure: unclear, esoteric, not important or well-known, known to only a few; or not able to be seen or heard distinctly. Or. Known to few because it is hidden or remote. Or dark, dim, shadowy, cloudy, almost nebulous.   \nObscured: Describe an incident when your “moral vision” was “obscured”: .\nObservatory: a laboratory, building, or station that is used for the observation of natural phenomena such as the weather or earthquakes, or commonly with a large, high-magnification telescope that is used for observing objects in outer space.\nObsession \nObsolete (See 540, in text) outdated, archaic, superseded, outmoded, out-of-date, no longer top-of-the-line or the best\nObstacle: problem, hindrance, impediment, stumbling block, complication. \nObstacles: (469, See 468, 623, 842 in text) The TV show American Gladiators (the original, not the short-lived, revamped version with mostly unworthy contestants who usually appeared to be in good shape, but proved not to be gifted and agile athletes that were capable of competing with the Gladiators) pitted everyday people, who usually had seen some success in athletics in their high school or college careers and were still in impeccable physical condition, against Gladiators, fitness and bodybuilding professionals—often sporting curly, blond mullets (men and women alike)—in contests that included hitting each other with giant cotton swabs, smashing into each other in giant hamster balls, and throwing each other off of foam pyramids. The final competition in American Gladiators was an obstacle course, The Eliminator, which was filled with many trying hurdles including the handbike, a device that the contestants hung from and moved along an overhead rail by pedaling with their arms, in the same way that a bike is pedaled with the legs.\nObtuse: dimwitted, imperceptive, clueless, thickheaded, slow: dull or blunt, physically or mentally; or, an angle between 90 and 180 degrees.    \nObviated\nObvious: clear, visible ,noticeable, palpable, impossible to overlook. \nOccupation\nOdds Makers (Colorful aside) \nOdiously\nOf note, despite his late twenties fall from dominancy, Federer embodied an elegance and efficiency previously unseen in the modern tennis era: Only John McEnroe, playing with more delicate technology ever matched Federer’s efficiency, and that efficiency was never coupled with the power Federer possessed. \nOffered to: provided to, given to.\nOminous \nOminous: portentous, warning, worrying, gloomy, unpromising; or, foreboding or presaging evil; indicating a future evil event; inauspicious.\nOmitting\nOn the SAT reading section or any other time you are reading a scientific work, or if you are someday writing a scientific work, attempt to be careful when using the word “theory”.  A “theory” with a capital “T” is pretty much a fact.  So, few ideas or theoretical frame works, in the history of the world, can be properly called Theories, in the way that scientists mean the term. As a result, be very careful choosing any answer that uses the word theory, or even hypothesis for that matter. \nOn the Spot\nOn they proceeded; the lame man now warned of a brook;\n	One morning, after he had finished his meditation, the old man opened his eyes and saw a scorpion floating helplessly in the water. As the scorpion was washed closer to the tree, the old man quickly stretched himself out on one of the long roots that branched out into the river and reached out to rescue the drowning creature. As soon as he touched it, the scorpion stung him. Instinctively the man withdrew his hand. \nOne-story\nOphelia by Pre-Raphaelite Member, John Everett Millais. The painting depicts the drowning death of Ophelia in Shakespeare’s Hamlet. \nOpponents\nOpulence: lavishness, sumptuousness, wealth, prosperity, affluence.\nOpulent: (516, opulent): List 3 items you consider a sign of opulence: (1) , (2) , and (3) . \nOracles: fortuneteller, soothsayer, prophet, psychics. \nOrator: speaker, debater, lecturer, raconteur, presenter\nOrbit: the path around a planet or other celestial body. \nOrbital: a sub-portion of a spaceship that is designed to orbit a celestial body;  Or, a region of an atom where electrons are likely to exist; Or, relating to orbits. \nOrdained: intended, meant, appointed, destined, inducted\nOrganic: natural, carbon based, living, animate, occurring or growing naturally from a process or a place, not artificial. EXAMPLE: Their friendship and trust grew organically out of their long and arduous working relationship with one another. \nOriginality\nOrthogonal: rectangular, quadrate, boxlike, right-angled, squarish, at a right angle to something.  An orthogonal vector is at a right angle to one plane or axis.  \nOssification: (152, 417): Use ossify (or some variant of the word) in a sentence where you are describing how some idea, practice, or belief has been solidified or hardened like bone into a culture, discipline, or institution. .\nOssification: You define it.  .\nOssified: to make hard like bone, to stultify, solidify, or become stubborn, obdurate, or obstinate in an opinion or belief.  Become inflexible in a belief. EXAMPLE: Seeing ten more people steal from the old but kindly store clerk, even after these same people had been shown kindness by the clerk, so ossified John’s position that people were inherently bad, that no one would ever be able to change his mind. \nOstentatious\nOstentatious: showy, flashy, flamboyant: Bling!  EXAMPLE: The below car interior, encrusted in gold and rubies is ostentatious by any metric. \nOutskirts: borders, fringes, bounds, edges, environs\nOutspoken: bold, boisterous, frank, candid, open, opinionated, or blunt. \nOverflowing: (See 70, in text) swarming, abundant, flooding, jam-packed, overloaded\nOverlong\nOverreacting\nOverwrought: extremely upset, emotional or agitated, distraught, distressed, troubled,  worried, hysterical, tense. \nPacific Northwest \nPacific: calm, peaceful, pacifying, pacifist, appeasing, conciliatory, peacemaking, placatory, mollifying. EXAMPLE: When Ferdinand Magellan rounded the tip of South America through the Straits of Magellan and finally passed from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, the voyage’s secretary recorded that the peaceful calm of the ocean proved to him that the Pacific Ocean had been aptly named: nothing could have been more pacific. \nPacifically: (997) You define it:  .\nPacify\nPains: great lengths, great difficulty, troubles, cares, cautions. \nPainter:        Painting: \nPalate: appreciation, appetite, sense of taste, stomach, penchant\nPalatial:  lavish, splendid, lush, luxuriant, regal, \nPalliate: What do you do to palliate the effects of the common cold? \nPalliate: You define it.  .\nPalliated: reduce in intensity or severity of something, partially excuse: alleviate, assuage or ameliorate. \nPalpable:  tangible, taste-able, visceral, intense, profound, moving: intense to the point of being almost physical, able to be felt, obvious because of its overwhelmingly intense nature. \nPalpate: verb meaning to examine a part of the body by feeling with the hands and fingers; adjective to describe a creature that has palps, sensory appendages (arms, limbs, or feelers) located near the mouth of many invertebrates, used to inspect or maneuver food before it is eaten. \nPampered: (686) How are people coddled or spoiled when they go to spas?  \nPampered: spoiled, indulged, coddled, babied. \nPangs: wants, desires, hungers, twinges, impulses; or, formally, intense sudden, often distressing emotion or impulses that drive one towards action.  \nParable: fable, story, folktale, allegory, exemplum. A story usually with magical or unreal elements meant to be edifying and serve didactic purposes.  Most religious stories are parables.  The works of Gabriel-Garcia Marques, the Nobel Prize winning Magical Realist writer from Colombia wrote a number of parables.  Similarly, Gogol, Kafka, Isaac Babel, and even your own Focused Coaching instructor Jason, has been known to write a parable or 2 or 40.  If you would like to read some of them someday, you may ask, or simply wait until Jason begins to rewrite, edit and illustrate them for Julius to read as he grows older. If you would like to read a parable now, look online for Marquez’s The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World, Gogol’s The Overcoat, or Kafka’s A Hunger Artist. All are rather moving.  \nParamour: lover, romantic interest, adulterer, tryst, mistress, affair. \nParlance: phraseology, jargon, vernacular, dialect, patois: Use “parlance” in a sentence:  .\nParochial: (92, 386, See 381, in text) Try using two different meanings of  parochial in two sentences, one describing a minister or priest and one describing a biologist or doctor who is ignorant of other fields of science that could help him actually understand what is going on inside the human body, and is therefore incompetent.\nParochial: narrow-minded, provincial, unsophisticated, closed-minded. Concerned only with local, often petty, issues and concerns. \nParochial: You define it.  .\nParsimony: (See 274, 307, in text) cheap, thrifty, stinginess, frugality, miserliness\nPartial: (See 81, 208, 312, in text) biased, prejudiced, unfair, predisposed, influenced\nPartiality\nPassing away  (euphemism) \nPassing: In context here, passing means: spending, witling away, or using usually TIME.  “Passing Time” is the phrase in the sentence for this question.  \nPassion\nPastoral\nPatience\nPatron: (See 245, in text) financier, benefactor, contributor, philanthropist, supporter\nPatronized: (1102, See 245, in text) You define it: \nPeaked: (see also 406, culmination, zenith) (cf. piqued):  reached a climax, pinnacle, zenith, crown, apex\nPeccadillos: small offenses, minor social entanglements that would not be considered proper in polite society: euphemism for doing naughty things which are not that bad, but which if revealed would be embarrassing if you were to run for president. \nPecuniary: fiscal, financial, monetary, economic, commercial (commercial in the sense that commercial can mean having to do with business or money.) Pecuniary means having to do with money. \nPecuniary: You define it.  .\nPecuniary: You define it.  . \nPedagogical: the study or profession of teaching, a high level of education, erudition or other scholarship which is then used primarily or at least partly to teach or educate others.  \nPedantic: (113,, 226, 483; see also, in text: 125): Okay, you have seen, drawn, referenced and defined this word.  Your assignment this time is to explain how your repeated assignment to discuss, define or otherwise represent the word pedantic is itself pedantic… Go!:  .\nPedantic: Describe a teacher or fellow student who you believe is pedantic; give details about this individual’s pedantry:  .\nPedantic: overly focused on rules and details to the point of becoming foolish or absurd.  Picture the most annoying fellow student you have ever known, the one who argues every comma, period, and 37th definition of a word with a teacher, and not to get more points, but because this student is certain that he or she is correct and that the information is vital and interesting.  That annoying person is a pedant. He or she is acting pedantically. (I still think that person is still just trying to get points from somewhere, even if there are no points to gain, and no one to give them. Some habits are hard to break: See, Class Binder Lesson 8 and 10: Give Me More Points Teacher! for  the reference.) \nPedantic: You define it.  .\nPedestrian\nPenned: wrote, authored, detailed, drafted; or, confined, restricted, limited, as if placed in an animal enclosure or “pen” on a farm, or slaughterhouse. \nPenny Pinchers: people who try to hold on to every last cent, always avoiding overspending and looking for the best deals, people who are thrifty, miserly, or tightfisted\nPerceived: (See 195, 216, 657, in text) apparent, professed, supposed, observed, alleged\nPeremptorily: (See 1414, in text) imperatively, dogmatically, commandingly, dictatorially, imperiously\nPerennial: lasting, enduring, perpetual, eternal, constant: Something that appears to occur yearly; Or, a flower or plant that blooms for more than two consecutive years;  Or, lasting throughout one year, or lasting all year long. \nPerilous: dangerous, unsafe, hazardous, death-defying, precarious\nPeripheral: (See 238, 1198, in text) minor, unimportant, secondary, marginal, ancillary. Not central, important, or vital. Marginal. Not in the direct field of vision, but on the periphery!\nPerspective: point of view, outlook, perception, side, angle.\nPerspicacity\nPervasive\nPetroleum: fuel, gas, petrol, energy, juice: HISTORICAL, CULTURAL, and ECONOMIC ASIDE: The petroleum industry and its related products is the largest revenue business in the world. The largest 58 oil and gas companies in the world, absent their subsidiary products or petrochemicals created from oil and gas refining byproducts, generated more than 5.7 trillion dollars in revenue in 2013. Estimates place the total oil and gas industry revenues at more than $9.0 trillion for the same year.  This revenue represents approximately 12% of all revenue generated worldwide, as the total worldwide gross revenue for 2013 was estimated at approximately $75 trillion.  The petroleum and gas industry, however, and its subsidiaries, which include the entire petrochemical industry, refining, sales of petroleum and gas products, pipeline and infrastructure are estimated worldwide to include roughly $22 trillion or roughly 29% of the world economy annually.  \nPhilanthropic: You define it.  ,\nPhilanthropic: You define it.  .\nPhilanthropist: a benevolent individual, one who gives to charity, a donor, humanitarian, patron. \nPhilanthropy\nPhilosopher: (385, See 42, 91, 111, 129, 392, 433, 492, 541, 565, 616, in text):  Name your favorite historical or personal philosopher, and say why you so admire him or her.  PHILOSOPHER:\nPhilosophy: (385, 933 See 42, 91, 111, 129, 392, 433, 492, 541, 565, 616, 943, 949, 954, in text)\nPhilosophy: a systematic way of thinking/approaching the world based on set principles, reason or religious faith.  Or, a branch of thought or doctrine espoused by a particular set of thinkers. If one is philosophical, it can mean calm, or approaching life in a restrained, almost resigned manner.  SYNONYMS: beliefs, doctrines, approach, rubric, belief system. \nPhobia: fear, terror, aversion, paranoia, dread\nPhobias: (1294, 1313) Search for the names of these phobias that we are hoping to cure you of:\nPhobic: (1294) fearful, anxious, afraid. What makes you most phobic?  .\nPhonetics:  accents, dictions, elocution, enunciations, articulations : Phonetic is the pronunciation of words and syllables, including stresses in a phonetic language: a language that does not explicitly rely on tone to create meaning.  Chinese is a tonal language.  English is a mostly phonetic language.  \nPicaresque:  literature having a rogue (scoundrel, rascal, cad, ne’er-do-well, scallywag, reprobate or prodigal) as its main character and usually its eponymous hero. Examples of picaresque novels, with eponymous heroes (a book with a title which is the same as that of the main character is a book with an eponymous hero) include The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, by Henry Fielding; Candid by Voltaire, and according to many, Don Quixote by Cervantes.  \nPicturesque: attractive, pretty, scenic, quaint, vivid, striking\nPiety: devotion, holiness, veneration, reverence, faith\nPigments: colorings, tints, dyes, a substance used to give something (ex. a painting) color\nPilfering: (360, See 364, in text) Unscramble the letters below to spell the name of a very famous 19th century American pilferer, who was acclaimed in “The Chivalry of Crime”, an editorial in The Kansas City Times, which lauded the bandit for his crimes because—as the deluded (confused, misinformed) author falsely believed—unlike the corrupt federal government under Ulysses S. Grant, which was robbing millions from both the rich and the poor, the noted thief only took from those who had a lot of money and subsequently spread his wealth to the poor in his community.\nPilfering: stealing, robbing, thieving, pickpocketing, defrauding. \nPiqued: (595) Are there any animals that pique your interest because of an interesting behavior? For example, lemmings, shown below, are small rodents that are commonly believed to commit mass suicide during migration. While there is some truth to this puzzling behavior, it is neither out of sheer stupidity nor out of morbid fatalism that these creatures throw themselves off of cliffs into bodies of water; lemmings, who are able to swim, will sometimes migrate in droves when their population density becomes too great, seeking new habitats across rivers or streams, which may sometimes be simply too broad for all of the lemmings to cross easily; invariably, some of the lemmings cannot make the journey and drown, which may be partly responsible for the sudden swings in the lemming population, which never seems to reach carrying capacity (the maximum possible number of animals of a species that can survive based on the availability of resources), swelling and returning to near extinction at irregular intervals.\nPiqued: aroused someone’s interest, stimulate, whet, rouse, kindle, galvanize; felt irritated or resentful.\nPity \nPlacable??\nPlacate: (See 522, 597, 639, in text) pacify, conciliate, soothe, mollify, propitiate\nPlacated  \nPlace a heart around the point of anything keen pictured in the last twenty entries in this text. \nPlagiarized\nPlanetoid: a small celestial body, asteroid , Kuiper Belt Object, Ort Cloud Object, or plutinos. \nPleasant: enjoyable, agreeable, amenable, pleasing, nice\nPleased: satisfied, gratified, content, thrilled, elated\nPlentiful\nPlentiful: (See 1438, in text) abundant, copious, overflowing, bountiful, ample\nPlummeting: falling, dropping, descending, plunging, diving, crashing or sinking. \nPolar: (See 19, in text) opposite, extreme, contrary, antithetical, contradictory\nPolemical: a type of argument style or criticism, usually biased or partisan which is marked by its :	critical, hostile, bitter, polemic, virulent, vitriolic, venomous, caustic, trenchant, cutting, acerbic, sardonic, sarcastic, scathing, sharp, incisive, and/or devastating nature. If you haven’t noticed yet, a lot of the words we have seen thus far actually sort of ‘loop’ around on the other related word.  Here, is something is polemical, it a type of argument or criticism that is marked by a tone that all that long list of other words you should know.  Sooner or later, you will begin to realize that if you know about 250-500 words, and all of their related synonyms, you will actually know all or most of the words not just on the SAT, but in the vast majority of the English Language.  Such a statement, if true, means that if you were to be taught this core set of words and their synonyms from earliest youth, none of you would have ANY PROBLEM AT ALL with vocabulary.  Reading would be far easier.  You would feel smarter. And, most importantly, the 10-12 years of school you have toiled through would be shortened to a handful or more efficiently, pointed useful years of actual education. Now all that’s left to do is lose a few million teachers, convince a few million people, and change the world.  If only it were that easy to—through one POLEMICAL ARGUMENT—change everything in the world….There might be some bias, oversimplification and hyperbole in the above POLEMIC, but it is difficult to be incisive, and sardonic, absent such exaggerated language and rhetoric. \nPolicies (discuss employment policy labor disputes in this section)\nPolicy:  rule, strategy, stance, position, procedure, dogma, program:  shrewd or prudent course of action or pursuit of said course of action.  \nPolite: (See 283, 499, in text) well-mannered, courteous, respectful, refined, cultured: List three synonyms of the word “polite”: (1) , (2) , (3) .\nPolitico: (194) You define it.  . \nPoliticos: politician, especially one who is dismissed as trite or self-serving.  Selfish politician.  \nPolygamist: bigamist, adulterer: someone who has multiple wives. \nPolyglot: (940): Define “polyglot”:  .\nPolyglot: multilingual, many languages, linguist. Someone who can speak many languages. (NOTE: Glottis is the tongue; languages are often called “tongues”, meaning a polyglot can speak in many “tongues”. \nPolymath: sage, fount of knowledge, renaissance man, genius, walking encyclopedia, “philosopher”. EXAMPLE: Benjamin Franklin and inventors like Elon Musk, Chandra Bose and Nikolai Tesla were all polymaths: individuals skilled in so many different disciplines that their breadth and depth of knowledge seems “unimaginable” to most. \nPolymer: (lure???): a compound composed of repeating small synthetic molecules.  This was a “sound lure” in this question; most of you should have realized that you needed a word which meant multiple or many: poly- as a prefix usually means many or multiple.  As we have said a number of times, knowing prefixes and suffixes, without knowing the meaning of the actual word tested can be as much a boon as a bust for your score.  \nPonderous: (21, 770) Ants can typically carry 10-50 times their own weight, which is impressive considering that 1000-7500 lbs would be far too ponderous a load for any human to bear. The weaver ant in the photo below is lifting a 500-mg weight, which is 100 times its own weight, using amazingly versatile sticky pads that change size depending on the weight of the object they are carrying. They can increase the size of the pads when they are attempting to lift something heavy, and they can decrease the size when they need to move quickly. Additionally, these ants make clever use of “peeling forces” to control how easily they can “unstick” themselves. The idea is similar to peeling tape off a surface; if you try to pull the tape along the surface, it will be very hard to remove the tape, but if you peel up the corner and pull the tape out from the wall, you can usually tear it right off. Similarly, when weaver ants want to stick to a surface, they will shift their legs to an angle that is closer to parallel to the surface, or running alongside the surface. When they want to detach easily, they make their legs more perpendicular to (at a 90° angle to, or going directly into) the surface so they can pull them directly off.\nPonderous: (21, 770, 1506):  List at least 4 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “ponderous”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6).  \nPonderous: clumsy, awkward, unwieldy, weighty, dull, boring, cumbersome, lumbering, ungainly; dull or laborious, esp. speech;  cf. Ponder, Pondering, or Pondered, meaning, to consider deeply, weigh carefully and prudently on one’s mind  \nPonderous: Select the picture which shows someone or something that is or are PONDEROUS:  \nPopulace: public, the population, all civilians.\nPopular\nPorous\nPortion: part, piece, bit, section, segment: EXAMPLE:  Peter had such a voracious appetite that regardless of the size of his portions, no meal ever satisfied him.\nPortrait: picture, drawing, sketch, likeness, impression, depiction.   ASSIGNMENT: Name one portrait painter and the portrait that he or she painted which you have seen IN PERSON in your life.  If you have never seen a portrait worth remembering, find one you would like to actually see in person someday. (Use Wikipedia, or any other internet tool to find the portrait and portrait painter.).\nPortrayed: depicted, described, illustrated, presented, delineated\nPoses: postures, stances, positions, attitudes, bearings\nPossessed: (503): Describe someone possessed of an artistic talent that is amazing to you (someone like Martha Graham or Picasso), who you have met or would like to meet: . Do you believe that “being possessed of or by” a particular and prodigious artistic or intellectual talent is more a gift or a burden and why?  . Feel free to continue your answer using additional paper if you believe your response significant.  If you do continue, please force your instructor to address your argument in class or privately.  Anything one feels strongly enough to actually work more than is required is deserved of a teacher’s attention. (JASON SAYS!)\nPossessed: (503, 613, See 19, 35, 111, 133, 196, 232, 252, 693, in text): In all the Focused, November 2013 Essay Writing Companion, you all learned about how Ben Franklin and Galileo were possessed of the bravery and strength of character to challenge accepted ideas, and willingly sacrifice wealth, position and even their own lives for the larger good of all humanity.  These two men, two of history’s heroes, lived inspirational lives all based on the characters each possessed.  Is there any character trait that you aspire to possess or at least enhance over the course of your education so that you might either be more prepared for the way the world will change in the next 30 years, or which you believe will help your aspirations to actually change the world?  Use the next 10 lines to try your best to answer this question.  It is again an important one, one you should answer in your education, and which you must answer over the next 30 years of your life.  Take the time to think about it at least a little now.\nPossessed: owned, had control of; to be possessed of  is to have as a quality, EXAMPLE: Franklin and Galileo were two men possessed of the bravery and strength of character needed to inspire revolutions; haunted or controlled as if by a spirit.\nPossible: (See 175, 715, 737, 842, 939, in text) conceivable, likely, probable, viable, feasible\nPosthumous: after death, postmortem, subsequently, retrospectively. EXAMPLE: One would hope for more than simply posthumous recognition of his work, for in some cases, great efforts that shape the world are only realized for their genius after the genius himself has shed his mortal coil.  For example, Noah Webster, writer of a the first American English grammar primer—which educated the first five generations of Americans—and sole author of the first American dictionary, a work of 70,000 words, 22,000 illustrations and etymologies from the 26 languages Webster learned over the almost 30 years it took him to complete his lexicon, was never aware of the long standing success and more than two centuries of posthumous fame his dictionary would earn him: Noah Webster completed his definitive 1843 dictionary only a few days before his death, at the age of 82.  \nPostmodernist: was a person who was part of a mid- to late twentieth- century artistic, philosophical, architectural and cultural movement which occurred primarily after World War I and as a reaction to the horrors of World War I. The movement intensified after World War II and took on more radical forms.  The primary idea behind the movement was that there was and should be a “value shift” after the lessons learned from the Wars. The shift in values occurred on a number of fronts: (1) the idea or conception of a narrative in fiction or theme in art changed dramatically.  No longer could people believe in culturally convenient narratives.  No longer could class be respected  The “absurd” or “unthinkable” had occurred during the Wars, and this unthinkable horror had to be reflected, if not tragically, then at least comically and absurdly in art.  Meaning, and what should have meaning---particularly in light of the past 2000 years of “cultural evolution” had to shift and take on, incorporate or acknowledge what this “evolutionary” process had done to itself twice in the span of 30 years.  \nPotpourri: (See 410, in text) mixture, assortment, hodgepodge, assemblage, medley: EXAMPLE: This companion assignment offers a potpourri of lexicographical, historical, literary, social and other knowledge for any who choose to engage its cornucopia of words, definitions, synonyms, antonyms, and exercises. \nPower (physics too, and primarily)\nPowerhouses: top competitors, elite, centers, productive centers, places where quality and talent cluster and is relatively assured. \nPractical: (684, See 31, 184, 361, 447, 729, 955, 1006, in text) Bicycles were far less practical before they had pedals. Imagine yourself scooting down the streets of New York City on the “Dandy Horse,” a precursor to the bicycle that was propelled by skipping along the ground.\nPractical: pragmatic, prudent, useful, applicable. (See, in text,  31, 184, 361, 447)\nPractitioner: specialist, expert, consultant, doctor, physician. \nPragmatic: practical, efficient, mercenary, realistic, logical, rational, sometimes hardheaded, often lacking in creativity, or optimism as such flights of “visionary” fancy are not “practical” or “pragmatic”.  Shhh… I know we all know this is poppycock!\nPragmatist: (361, See 447, 684, in text): List 7 (seven) different words that accurately describe a person as a pragmatist. (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), and (7)  . How much fun is a pragmatist to go out with? Explain: .\nPrecepts: principles, rules, tenets usually of a religion or moral code.\nPrecision\nPreclude\nPrecocious: advanced for one’s age or experience, a prodigy is precocious. Blossoming or ripening early, or before one would expect: (Can and often is used metaphorically to comment on wisdom or expertise in someone too young to expect such wisdom or expertise.) \nPrecociousness: mentally or intellectually advanced in a manner that is unusual for one’s age; or, blossoming or ripening early.  Generally, precocious children are called prodigies (kids who show enormous talent at an early age.)  (Note: prodigy, however, should not be confused with prodigious, which just means a large amount, or amazing/impressive; a prodigy may have a prodigious amount of talent for his or her age; however, all things prodigious are certainly not prodigies.)  \nPredators: species that hunt other species for food.  People lacking moral character, who “prey” upon weaker, less fortunate members of society. \nPredict: (See 737, 819, 1415, in text) forecast, foresee, prophesy, anticipate, envision\nPremeditation  \nPrepared for\nPrepositional Clauses and phrases beginning with a word that ends in –ing must be next to or touch the things they modify.\nPride: (Pride Oneself): dignity, honor, self-esteem, self-worth, self-regard\nPrime Minister (Parliamentary Government: INCLUDE CLASSIC PARTIES) \nPrinceling: young or unimportant prince. \nPrivation: deprivation, hardship, destitution: a lack of basic human necessities like food, shelter, heating, clothing, and reasonable human relations.  \nPrivilege: In context, the word privilege refers to a right of privacy in communication of information between a professional and his or her clients. This privilege is shared between a doctor or lawyer and his or her patient or client. \nPrivileged (elevated, preferenced):  enjoying greater opportunity, educational advantage, or other avenues into the higher/upper echelons (levels) of society. \nProbation: a period during which someone is monitored for proper behavior; trial, audition, trial period, provision, or test period. \nProbation: a period during which someone or something is tested or examined to see that it fits a certain set of criteria, usually after failing to meet these requirements one or more times; criminals are often put on probation, a period of time in which they are to demonstrate their ability to follow the law and behave according to society’s standards, after they are released from prison or in lace of a more serious sentence. \nProceeding from weakness of mind or want of courage; feeble; as pusillanimous counsels. \nProcess (context: “artistic process”): (See, 269, in text, for process as in technique): craft (actors call their creative process their craft), art, method, procedure, syllabus, manner, sequence, routine, or subroutine. Or, to understand, divine, cogitate, comprehend through reasoning, reasoning, analyze and learn. EXAMPLE: It will take me a few days to process what I have learned fully and really understand it: until then I will have to think about it a few days, before I could even thoughtfully think about the work.  \nProcrastination: delay, put-off, postpone, waste time rather than working: what bad students do and make excuses about doing.  \nProcuring:   taking, stealing, acquiring title by the government for official use; acquiring; obtaining, gaining, attaining. \nProdigious: (See 514, 613, in text): extraordinary, phenomenal, unusual, exceptional, wonderful, amazing, impressing, brilliant, or enormous: an enormous amount, usually of talent, that impresses to the point of seeming almost supernatural: EXAMPLES: prodigious intellect, or prodigious amount: \nProduction: (335) Use “production” in a sentence:  .\nProduction: creation, method of creation; or an event or spectacle; or  a fabrication or lie; or a play or other dramatic work put on professionally.  \nProducts derived from the petroleum industry include plastics, most rubbers, computer chip related products, lubricants, detergents, polymers, isopropyl alcohol used for medicinal purposes, vinyl siding on homes, and a large percentage of the industrial polymers/lubricants which keep industrial culture lubricated and adhesive.  The overall effect of petroleum, gas and its byproducts represents the primary engine of the world economy and the primary fuel for every engine on the planet.  When coal is included into the financial consideration of fossil fuels the total contribution to the world economy of fossil fuels represents more than 1/3 of direct revenue worldwide annually, and when all derivative and subsidiary products are considered, the total impact of the industry and the effects on modernization, worldwide economic stability, employment, and standard of living for more than 4 billion people, one is left in sheer amazement at the impact of the industry, which finds its “fuel” from the remnants of single cell organisms which inhabited the planet more than 100 million years ago.  \nProducts: results of multiplication; or, items placed into the stream of commerce; or, crops, goods, merchandise, stuff. \nProfits: (See 48, 51, 189, 306, in text): earnings, income, proceeds, returns, revenues, or net revenue, earnings, profits, etc. \nProfligacy: You define it.  .\nProfligate:  You define it.  .\nProfligate: wasteful, reckless, decadent, almost hedonistic. Wasteful through extravagance dedicated only to decadent and immoral activities: gambling, drinking and other inebriants, and paying for physical gratification.  \nProfligates:  (193, 320, See 248, 583, 1144, in text) Name 3 things that young professional athletes might spend their money on if they were profligates: (1)     (2) (3)\nProfoundly: astonishingly, amazingly; or, surprisingly, insightfully, wisely, startlingly insightful, or shockingly wise. Intensely???\nProfuse: abundant, copious, pouring forth liberally—overflowing\nProfusion: abundance, excess, plethora, cornucopia, wealth of (meaning, a great amount of) \nPrognosticator:   You define it. .\nPrognosticators:   predictors, oracles, forecasters, haruspices (ancient Roman priest who could see the future. This is an unusual word.)\nProgressive Party: Progressive College/Idea: You guys never know what progressive means.  When used in association with a college or institution, progressive means liberal, as in you go to college to learn things, to acquire the ability to write, read, analyze, do general things and learn about the world and what your place and the U.S.’s place in that world is.  You do not go to college to get a trade, per se.  I know to many of you and your parents this is insanity.  It is not really, it is progressive, it is liberalism, it launched companies like Google, Hewlett and Packard, Microsoft, Apple, Tesla, Space X, etc.  All of the Ivy League schools, Stanford and to a large degree even MIT and CalTech are “liberal education focused” or progressive colleges, which require a broader education.  Harvard in particular is a liberal arts college, with minimal if any engineering or other practical disciplines. Progressivism, insanity… liberal lunacy, or the place where 90% of the nation’s innovative product creating companies come from? You decide….Oh, wait… its already decided. \nProject\nPromote\nPromotion: (1026, See 208, 489, in text): List 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “promotion”: \nPromotion: (See 208, 489, in text) raise, advancement, upgrading, elevation, preferment\nPromptly: punctually, sharp, straightaway, without delay, immediately\nProne: (681): List 3 synonyms of “prone”: (1), (2), (3).  Name two different definitions of “prone”: (1)  . (2)   .\nProne: (Both lying on the ground, and vulnerable): vulnerable; or lying flat on the ground, face down.   \nPropagating:  proliferating, spreading, disseminating; or to spread widely, impel forward and often amplify through a medium.\nPropagation   \nPropitious (See 1481, in text) : favorable, auspicious, likely to lead to success or victory, kindly disposed: indicating a great chance of success. A propitious start to a game, means you are drubbing the other guy and likely to win. \nProposal\nPropose/Proposed: suggest, offer, recommend. \nProposed: You define it (give two different meanings of the word): .\nProse: (250, 481, See 252, 330, 511, in text): List everything that would be included under the definition of prose that you know.  Of note, poetry would not be included, but an essay would be considered prose.  .\nProse: anything written that is not poetry (in verse.)  Text, writing as in essay writing.\nProse: You define it.  .\nProsperity: (186, See 516, in text) You define it:  .\nProsperity: wealth, affluence, opulence, SUCCESS!!!!  Good fortune. \nProstrate: to lay on the ground, flat on one’s stomach, often in worship or in fear/submission.  Can refer to a crawling position, or simply lying flat on the ground. \nProtect(ionism, trade): (See 11, 273, 448, 497, 519, 906, 1305, in text) defend, guard, shield, shelter, safeguard: Here protectionism is a government practice of using tariffs, import quotas, and perhaps even other more extreme tactics to protect that nation’s internal production of raw materials, textiles, finished goods, or intellectual property. \nProvidence: (35, See 253, 264, 864, in text):  List at least 5 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “providence”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  And, Define: Serendipitous:  . \nProvident: prudent, careful, possessing forethought, but not visionary foresight, rather careful and conservative wisdom in planning for the future. Synonyms: judicious, shrewd, circumspect (cautious or guarded especially about one’s thoughts and future actions, looking at every option first), wise.\nProvides: delivers, offers, affords.  \nProximate: nearby, close, adjacent, immediate, neighboring: EXAMPLE: In the American and English legal systems, the proximate cause of an injury is considered a cause which is close enough or immediately enough related to the cause of an injury to assign liability to the actor who was responsible for the proximate cause. \nPrudent: (21, 297, 355 See 21, 35, 287, 684, 864, 955, in text) What was the most prudent decision you made last week, and why was it a wise choice? . \nPrudent: (21, 297, 355, 1257, See 21, 35, 287, 684, 864, 955, in text) If you are truly prudent, you have realized how often this word shows up, and you have committed it to memory already. \nPrudent: practical, sensible, careful, cautious, wise regarding most risks. \nPrudent: You define it.  ,\nPrudent: You define it.  .\nPseudonyms: aliases, pennames, nom de plumes, sobriquets, assumed names. Name at least 3 female writers  who used pseudonyms to publish during the 19th Century (1800s). , ,  , .\nPsychiatric: (See 572, in text) having to do with the health or sanity of the mind, concerning the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of mental illnesses.\nPublication: (See 438, in text):  newspapers, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets, journals, or books. \nPuffery: (880) “Brown-nosers” engage in puffery in order to advance themselves in the workplace. Give an example of something you, or someone you know, has told a boss or teacher insincerely in order to win “brownie points”.\nPuffery: false praise, flattery, sycophantism, obsequiousness, toadyism, blandishment. Often they are self-aggrandizing or promotional claims made by a seller of goods which are so clearly hyperbolic (exaggerated for effect, that no one could conceivable take the statements seriously.) \nPugnacious: (975): Define “pugnacious”:  . Name the most pugnacious person you know: .  Write a sentence using the word “pugnacious” which describes the person you just named.  Be descriptive in the sentence. .\nPugnacious: belligerent, confrontational, antagonistic, fiery, disputatious\nPunctuality: promptness, reliability, regularity, timekeeping: \nPurge\nPurge: to completely eliminate or clean out, an abrupt or violent removal; elimination, eradication, expulsion.\nPusillanimous:  cowardly, craven, nervous, timid, spineless; cowardly or lacking bravery.  According to some, pusillanimous is a type of cowardice which is inherent to a person’s character, and which is imbued with a lack of moral character so severe that it actually inspires contempt or disgust in others. Noah Webster, in 1828, was a tad less pejorative, but extremely clear. As such, we at Focused defer to the eponymous lexicographer: \nQuadrangles: courtyard (usually at a college), plazas, squares, open area surrounded by buildings, usual at a college this space is called a quad.  Below is Stanford’s quadrangle. \nQualified: (context): offering support which is not complete, or which is only given conditionally, or with a caveat or aside, which mitigates the original statement, or lessens its strength.) \nQuantum Mechanics\nQuarterly: (45): List 5 synonyms for quarterly: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “quarterly” in a sentence:  .\nQuash:  (859, See 632, in text): Define “quash” and then use it in a sentence:  .\nQuashed: (See 632, 857 in text): suppressed, quell, crushed, repressed, overwhelmed, destroyed, put down. \nQueasy \nQuell: subdue, lessen, suppress, quash: often quell a rebellion, or put to an end by means of force; or, suppress bad feelings. \nQuerulous: critical, complaining, difficult, quarrelling, argumentative: inclined to find fault, complain, or whine, regardless of the situation.  Don’t be querulous; it’s unbecoming (unattractive, something that does not make you likeable, pleasing or attractive to others.)\nQuerulous: You define it.  .(Don’t be stubborn, or ornery about defining querulous; it’s unbecoming!)\nQuestioned: (See 788, in text) interrogated, quizzed, grilled, examined, interviewed\nQuiet: (634, See 1470, in text):  How might one quiet the fear that he or she has not prepared enough for a test? .  List 5 synonyms of “quiet”, be sure to select words that exhibit your understanding of a variety of possible meanings or usages of the word: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  \nQuieted: pacified, calmed, silenced, appeased. \nQuintessential:  ultimate, model, exemplar, archetype, ideal, example. \nQuota: allowance, limit, ration, allocation, dispensation: A maximum or minimum number of people or things that must be accepted, produced, are needed or permitted. EXAMPLE: Some colleges once used quotas for the number of minority students they would annually accept, but the U.S. Supreme Court determined that admitting a predetermined number of students based on those students race, religion or cultural background was discriminatory. EXAMPLE 2: Jason and John each have a weekly quota of vocabulary questions that they must create; this quota was designed to aid the two in completing a 1000 page set of vocabulary companions for Focused students prior to the 2014 March SAT.  \nRachel Carson\nRadical: favoring drastic change, an extreme difference, affecting the fundamental or basic nature of things; either a revolutionary, or something that so affects the basic nature of a thing it is like causing a revolution.  \nRaiment: clothes, apparel, garbs: often the robes/gowns of royalty. \nRancorous: bitter, vindictive, being possessed of a bitter, deeply help, long standing resentment, hatred, etc. \nRanging from…to: an idiomatic expression which always uses the prepositions “to” and “from” in some order, which generally indicates a wide range of options; often a range so wide as to be unexpected. EXAMPLE: His favorite books ranged from sports fishing to astrophysics: a variety so unusual and eclectic few others could claim his varied, often esoteric erudition. \nRanting: (Rant; see also, 14 in text rant): haranguing, raving, carrying on, a diatribe; speaking in a bombastic, threatening, abusive manner, usually repetitively and at length.\nRapier: a sharp, short sword, usually carried by naval officers, brigands and pirates. \nRare: (1193, See 97, 100, in text): Draw a picture of something rare that you value very highly in the box provided below: \nRarified: (See 97, 100, in text) also Rarefied: elite or esoteric, not known or done often by common people, abstruse, exclusive, highbrow, refined, recondite.\nRashly: hastily, impulsively, impetuously, thoughtlessly, imprudently\nRatify:  approve, endorse, indorse, authorize, confirm. Ratification is a formal approval of something, usually a document which has legal or governmental significance, which can only become operative once the document is ratified.   EXAMPLE: By 1789, the United States Constitution had been ratified by every one of the thirteen colonies save Rhode Island. Rhode Island subsequently ratified the Constitution in 1790, via a vote of delegates, rather than through public referendum (a vote of all the people.)  \nRavaged: (See 835, in text) devastated, ruined, destroyed, wasted, decayed:  Many murals and all frescoes (because of the decay of the plaster over time) are ravaged by time, but one particular fresco was ravaged simply by incompetence and fraud: In Spain in 2012, a famous fresco was “restored”—most would say ravaged by an 80 year old amateur artist permitted to “restore” the painting.  Below are the original fresco in a deteriorated state, and then the fresco as “restored”/ravaged.  \nReady (oneself for…): prepare, set or calm one’s mental state for a coming event. \nRealist: pragmatist, stoic, practical person, prudent person, conservative person, person with low expectations; the realist is the almost direct antonym of the idealist.  The realist is prudent, practical, pragmatic, sensible, cautious, moderate, and will never, ever, ever change the world… rather, he is the stalwart of the status quo, the mouth piece of common sense, and the champion of consistency.  Change is his bugaboo (the monster or gremlin he fears at night when he goes to sleep.) \nRealistic: (See 361, in text) accurate, representative, lifelike, true, convincing.  EXAMPLE: The paintings of Rossetti and the other Pre-Raphaelites were not Realistic; rather, they embraced an idealism and romanticism which has not been seen again in art in the western world.  \nRebuke \nRecall a memorable digression (tangent or aside) made by one of your teachers. What class were you in, what was the topic of the lecture, and what did your teacher talk about?  \nRecited: performed, rehearsed, narrated, delivered, enumerated\nRecklessness: (See 42, 193, 264, in text) irresponsibility, unruliness, carelessness, haste, impulsive\nReclusive:  solitary, withdrawn, distant, cloistered, distant, isolated: like a hermit: a misanthrope is often reclusive. \nRecognizable\nRecognize: (See, 523, 568, in text): know, identify, distinguish, diagnose. \nReconnoitered: explored, scouted, investigated, surveyed, inspected\nRecovering: (1242) retrieving, getting back, claiming; OR healing, getting better, recuperating\nRecovering: recuperating, convalescing, mending, regaining, recouping\nRecriminating: To respond to one accusation with another, counter accusation, directed most often at the accuser. Often recrimination relates to charging the original accuser with a like crime.  The word is not often used today, but there has been a surge in use of vocabulary related to the law on standardized tests over the last few years, and it seems a general belief in education—one with which I agree—that students should have at least a working knowledge of legal terminology.  I actually believe all Americas should have a first year legal education (referred to as a “1L” education or simply “1L”) as part of their public, high school education. It would so benefit everyone that if it could be done—if teachers could be found and the BAR associations and law schools would permit it—the whole of the nation would be better off.  EXAMPLE: I believe, however, that if I were to accuse the legal profession of cloistering away basic legal knowledge to maintain a medieval guild-like stranglehold on legal esotericism, or if I were to make statements which could be seen as allegations of a lack of competence in the current education system which might prohibit effective presentation of the 1L curriculum, I would likely face a litany of recriminations so encyclopedic that it would require, simply to catalogue, a lexicographer far more patient and pedagogically precise than even the prodigiously talented Mr. Noah Webster, L.L.M, attorney at law. \nRedeem: save, vindicate, absolve, clear, fulfill\nRedefined: interpret, clarify, parameterize, reorganize, alter: to change the meaning of something. \nReduce: lessen in degree or severity, palliate, mollify, mitigate, relieve, alleviate.\nReduce: List 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3).\nRedundant: (See 202, 1364, in text) unnecessary, unessential, superfluous, unneeded, surplus\nRefined: (See 64, 305, 345, 365, 387, 389, 391, 964, 1193, in text) sophisticated, advanced, developed, experienced, cultured.\nRefuge\nRegal: royal, majestic, magnificent, imperial, impressive, stately, splendid, lush, or  palatial.\nRegardless: (See 225, 273, 1074, in text) (cf. irregardless: synonym, which is weird, but is similar to how inflammable means the same thing as flammable): irrespective, nevertheless, nonetheless, unrelatedly, irregardless\nRegressed: to move backward, lose ground, undue progress previously made; reverted, relapsed, degenerated, backslid, lapsed. \nRegret\nRehash\nReincarnated   \nReinvigorating: (See 83, in text) rejuvenate, reanimate, refresh, recharge, reenergize, renew, revive, strengthen, bolster (strengthen, fortify, support.) \nReject: (851, See 49, 485, 487, 1500, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “reject” or a form of the word, then use those five (5) words and reject (or one of its forms) in a paragraph below: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . Paragraph:  . Email this paragraph to your instructor.\nRejection: (See 49, 485, 487, in text): refusal, denial, denunciation, refutation, dismissal, rebuff, negate. \nRejuvenated: to return youthfulness or vigor to someone or something; revitalize, recharge, reinvigorate. \nRekindle: renew, regenerate, revitalize, refresh, restore, to strengthen or relight a dying fire.\nRelated to: connected to, linked to, associated with, having a kinship.  This word has shown up multiple times in actual definitions, but this was the first time that it took on significant meaning in an actual question, so—for clarity’s sake—synonyms are presented above. \nRelated Words: Subjective vs. Objective Something that is subjective is personal, individual, slanted, biased, or based on the personal tastes or perspective of an individual, NOT constant, consistent, fact-based, or absolute. On the other hand, something that is objective is impartial, unbiased, fact-based, disinterested, or based on observable facts and not opinions.\nRelease: (See 529, 553, in text) discharge, excuse, dismiss, expel, terminate\nRelegated: demoted, downgraded, consigned, transferred, lowered\nReliable\nReliable: dependable, consistent, steadfast, unfailing, trustworthy\nRelic: artifact, remnant, vestige, antique, historical object: EXAMPLE: Perhaps ascribing the onset of cancer to “a series of chance mutational accidents” is simply a relic of medical and biological science, something left over from the 19th century, prior to the full acceptance and understanding of statistical certainty as the best measure a theory’s and discipline’s validity. \nRelief:  respite, reprieve, break, help, aid, accommodation. \nRelieve: Circle all of the synonyms of relieve that also appear in bold on this page of this dictionary. Hint: there are at least 5.\nReluctant\nReluctantly: (See 181, 322, in text) unwillingly, unenthusiastically, halfheartedly, grudgingly, hesitantly \nRemark: (See 7, 13, in text) comment, statement, observation, aside, quip\nRemedial: corrective, curative, educative\nRemember, this work is not a THEORY yet, it is a set of hypothesis, theoretical suppositions, and probabilistic logic, which is still waiting for a great data set and consensus to make it into a THEORY proper.  \nReminiscent: remember, recall, think of some past event or time fondly, usually by talking to another person who also was at the same place at the same time in the past and who shared common experiences with you at that place and during that time. To be nostalgic, or even wistful.\nRemnants: small remains, fragments, trace remains, leftover, residue, rest, remains, residuum, scrap, remainder.\nRemonstrative: challenge, deplore, condemn, denounce, criticize\nRemoving: (See 155, 158, 163, 171, 309, 442, 472, 529, 532, 602, 604, 607, 610, 725, 1030, in text) withdrawing, extricating, confiscating, extracting, isolating\nRenounced: rejected, relinquished, abandoned, forsaken, repudiated\nRepercussions: consequences, upshots, effects, aftermaths, impacts, often the punishment or damage that must be repaired after one does something “bad.”  If you mess something up, the repercussions are the costs associated with fixing your mistakes. \nRepopulated\nReproach\nRepudiated: disclaimed, renounced, denied, rebutted, disavowed, repudiated\nRepugnant: offensive, distasteful, vile, unacceptable, obscene, nauseating, grotesque. \nRepulse\nRequired\nReschedule: postpone, rearrange, defer, reorganize, suspend\nReserved (See 149, 181, 273, 277, 868, 872, 965, 981, in text) reticent, aloof, private, undemonstrative, detached\nReserves: stashes, stocks, supplies, store, stockpile\nReservoir: (1243 as reserves) stockpile, store, supply, bank, pool, fund\nResidents: inhabitants, occupants, tenants, population, populace, dwellers, people who live in a given area.\nResolve: (173, See 842, in text) Can mean to clear up or solve an argument or issue, but here it is used a noun that means determination, doggedness, tenacity, or resolution, the ability to persevere or stand strong even in the face of obstacles or adversity.\nResolving: deciding, determining, pledging, taking an oath, solving or ending a problem, context determines the definition strongly. Here, the meaning is to solve a mystery, or determine the relevant facts that would lead to determining the facts and actors involved in a criminal case. \nResounding\nResources: anything that people or things can use to grow or build themselves or other things or people.  Oil is a resource; money is a resource; people are a resource; time is the most valuable and only truly limited resource.  \nRestitution: compensation, reparation, indemnity, repayment, remuneration\nRestore: (739) You define it: \nRestore: return to factory setting, return to its original state or form. Reinstate, reestablish, renovate, repair. NOTE: \nRestoring: (729, 1425):  List at least 5 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “restoring” and/or “restorative”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  Note: One synonym must be to the word “restorative”, and in specific should take note of its medicinal connotation.  \nRestriction: (See 636, 742, in text) constraint, limit, control, check, proviso\nRetard \nReticent: hesitant, tentative, reserved, timid, reluctant or unwilling to speak, ≈ diffident, taciturn (habitually uncommunicative, almost silent.) You have seen this word above a bunch of times in definitions.  The words should begin to cycle now. You should see the same sets of words defining one another. Your recall of the word should be improving. Passive learning is working.  You are getting smarter.  We are not controlling your minds…. You love this… Boooohaaaahhaaaahaaaa!!! (Mad scientist laugh.)\nReticent: You define it.  , \nRetinues: entourages, escorts, staff, personnel, followings\nRevealed: to make known, uncover.  \nRevenue: income, proceeds, profits (net revenue), returns, takings. Money taken in by a business from sale of goods or services.\nReverberation: repercussions, ramifications, consequences, fallout, backlash\nReverting: (See 444, in text) regressing, relapsing, returning, defaulting, changing back.\nReview: appraise, evaluate, analyze, examine; or, literary journal or magazine. \nReviled: (See 366, 372, 378, 954, in text) hated, loathed, detested, abhorrent, despicable\nRevisit: reconsider, reexamine, reassess, reevaluate, reopen\nRevolutionary: (See 336, 452, 748, 1547, in text) novel, original, futuristic, pioneering, innovative\nRigid: (See 6, in text) unbending, inflexible, firm, inelastic, firm: ANTONYMs: flexible, mutable, malleable, open, liberal, easy, supple. \nRival: (973, 1489, See 750, 924, 930, in text): List at least 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “rival: \nRival: (973, See 750, 924, 930, in text) You define it: \nRivals: (See 750, 924, 930, in text) competitors, opponents, adversaries, contenders, challengers\nRiveting: fascinating, captivating, enthralling, engrossing, intriguing\nRomanticism: (1045, See 134, in text): Which of the following pictures represents an expression of the literary and artistic movements known as Romanticism:\nRomanticized: (See 134, in text) idealized, glamorized, sentimentalized, exaggerated, unrealistic. ASSIGNMENT: Write a sentence about someone or something that you once romanticized but which you later realized was actually relatively ordinary, common, banal, hackneyed, vapid, insipid, uninspired, or clichéd. . \nRoomy: (See 1369, in text) spacious, generous, large, capacious, ample\nRoundly: vehemently, emphatically, utterly, soundly, completely \nRudimentary\nRugged: (See 694, in text) tough, durable, sturdy, resilient, well-built\nRuin: bankruptcy, insolvency, poverty, destitution, indigence\nRumors\nRustic\nSafety: (See 216, 448, 455, 528, in text) welfare, wellbeing, security, protection, assurance\nSanctified\nSanctimonious: self-righteous, holier-than-thou, pretending to be spiritual or to follow religious rules, but actually acting amorally, and then blaming other people and attacking other people for acting immorally.  Moral hypocrite (someone who says one thing and then does another; someone whose like is an ironic joke, but he or she is not aware of the joke.)\nSanction\nSand paintings\nSanguine\nSanguine: upbeat, cheerfully optimistic; or flushed with healthy rosy color; or blood red color; or, oddly enough, eager to shed blood and kill things.  The last definition is less common. \nSanguinity: Besides “cheerful” and “jovial” name three other synonyms for words related to Sanguine. (1), (2), (3).  Now, define a meaning of sanguine which does not relate to a cheerful mood:  .(You had a word that has the same root, above; this is just a noun form of the other word.  (Look in question 9 above, for hints.) \nSapphire: (NOTE)\nSardonic: grimly mocking, satirical, bitingly sarcastic.  (You should define here, sarcastic, sardonic, ironic, dry wit, dry humor, wry, clever, and witty as tone words.)  \nSatellite: moon, orbital body, lunar body, machine in space around a planet. \nSatellites: (800): Draw an organic and an inorganic satellite orbiting Earth pictured below: \nSatire: mockery, caricature, derision, parody, spoof: An artistic piece points out the absurdity, folly, foolishness, and/or  hypocrisy inherent in most social institutions.  Often, satires then ridicule or heap scorn upon these targetted institutions or specific individuals.  Satires are incisive, trenchant, witty, ironic, and often use sarcasm to expose and discredit as filled with moral turpitude, ethical decay, and logical absurdity these same social institutions.  Satire is, in a sense, the literature and art of radicalism and is therefore revolutionary in its attempt to bring all members of society  (both high and low) back to their basic, root, or foundational level, where all are equal…  \nSatirized\nSautéed: to cook quickly in butter or oil; to fry, almost to fricassee—which is more stewing or heating something for a long period of time in liquid.  This word is not vital; however, the word fricassee did appear on an SAT in a passage related “vocabulary” question and knowing what the word meant or at least not being afraid of the word would have helped a lot of students, thus the “cooking lesson.” \nScandal: (284): Describe a scandal in the news today that you find unusual, or out of the ordinary: \nScandals:  disgraceful, ignominious, shameful, acts or situations in which one might become embroiled. Scandals are the “big brothers” of peccadillos. One is first involved in peccadillos in his or her youth, and if he or she continues on a profligate path, he or she will eventually find him or herself embroiled, perhaps even inundated with scandals. \nScanty: revealing clothing, meaning apparel that shows too much “skin” to be appropriate. Or, a small amount, or tidbit, etc. Or meager, inadequate, insufficient. \nScarce: (See 339, 617, in text) uncommon, rare, unusual, infrequent, occasional\nScenes: (See 61, in text) panoramas, sights, landscapes, pictures, vistas,\nScholar\nScholars: academics, professors, intellectuals. \nScholars: List 3 synonyms: (1) , (2), (3) . Answer the following: Is the person you drew in entry 505 a scholar? .  If so, where did he or she study and gain his or her erudition, or scholarship? . In other words, where did he or she become “learned?” .\nScholarship: study, erudition, published learned work. Or a grant of money to attend post high school education. \nScholastics: having to do with schools or studying; pedantic, or a student or teacher. \nScreenwriters\nScrupulous (care scrupulous care I shall take)\nScrupulous: meticulous, thorough, careful, rigorous, assiduous\nSeasoned: experienced, veteran, tested, established, practiced\nSecluding\nSecondly, The poorer tenants will have something valuable of their own, which by law may be made liable to distress and help to pay their landlord's rent, their corn and cattle being already seized, and money a thing unknown.\nSecretive: tightlipped, reticent, private, enigmatic, mysterious, silent, guarded: recall that this is intentional, taciturn might work, but that word means that one is quite or secretive about his or her feelings by nature, and not as a result of any one particular “secret.” \nSecular:  worldly, earthly, irreligious, materialistic, not related to the religious, spiritual or, usually, moral; Or, occurring once in an age, or once every 100 years, rare.\nSecure: (See 497, in text) guarantee, promise, to lock in or make certain; OR protected, safe\nSecurity:  safety, well-being, refuge. sanctuary.\nSedentary: inactive, stationary, idle  ≈ lethargic, indolent, languid, sluggish\nSedulous (2): diligent, persistent, assiduous, hard-working, conscientious  or unceasing dedication\nSedulous: (1, 102, 260, See 791, in text) List at least 4 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). List three antonyms for sedulous:  (1), (2), (3).  \nSedulous: (1,102, 260, 1278, See 791, in text) List at least 3 synonyms and 1 antonyms for the word “sedulous”: \nSedulous: You define it.  . : Name at least 2 synonyms for “sedulous” that you did not use in your definition: (1), (2), (3). \nSedulousness: You define it.  ,\nSelective\nSemblance: (See 143, in text) appearance, resemblance, facade, front, veneer\nSeminars: sessions, discussions, conferences, roundtables, assemblies, meetings devoted to presentations and speeches about a specific topic, usually in a collegiate or professional setting.\nSenatorial: relating to a senator, consisting of senators, acting in a senatorial manner. \nSenior Partners (opportunity for a joke) \nSenior: experienced, managerial, older, higher-ranking, or skilled/ knowledgeable. \nSensibility\nSensual: (1044) (sensual pleasures): treats or delights that are pleasing to the body’s senses, particularly touch, and usually meaning contact of a physical and sexual nature\nSensual: sexy, voluptuous, sultry, seductive, erotic\nSentimental: emotional, saccharine, sappy, tenderhearted, nostalgic.  Feelings that affect sense, reason, and logic in a contemptible or deleterious manner. Overly emotional, sappy, treacly. ASSIGNMENT: Draw a sentimental scene from your favorite film in the romantic comedy genre—here we are looking for a scene that would make you cry:\nSerene: placid, pacific, peaceful, tranquil, composed\nSerenity: (1439, See 705, in text): List 3 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “serenity”: \nSham: 	fakes, fraudulent schemes, imposters, not genuine, pretenders; to feign something, or pretend to be experiencing something such as an illness or emotion. \nSharp: (See 13, 29, 87, 172, 178, 227, 513, in text): keen, strident, harsh, severe, honed. \nSheepish: embarrassed, uncomfortable, hangdog, ashamed, shamefaced\nSheer: (See 486, in text) utter, pure, plain, arrant, complete.  EXAMPLE: sheer gall, sheer amazement. \nShelter: housing, accommodation, quarters.  \nShocked: (See 304, in text) surprised, astonished, appalled, dumbfounded, disturbed\nShort-lived: fleeting, ephemeral, temporary, transient, here today gone tomorrow. \nShortness: (398, See 8, 27, 168, 227, 240, 249, 251, 254, 330, 407, 573, 555, 812, 893, 958, in text) the state or quality of being short. \nShortsighted: thoughtless, myopic, unthinking, limited\nShort-term: (398, See 8, 168, 407, in text) List 3 synonyms: (1), \nShrill\nShrouding\nShun: deny or reject, to cast out as one who is exiled, eschew, avoid, abjure, spurn.\nSickness: illness, disease, condition, infection, ailment\nSilent Spring\nSimilar\nSimilarly, the American Association for the Advancement of Science:\nSimpleton: fool, buffoon, bonehead, dope, dunce: EXAMPLE: Only a simpleton could possibly believe that random chance triggers an event that has occurred with certainty for the last 3 billion years, when certain  circumstances occur.    \nSingle-handedly: alone, solo, independently, unaided, solitary\nSituations: here, meaning implies battle, any “combat situation”. \nSixthly, This would be a great inducement to marriage, which all wise nations have either encouraged by rewards or enforced by laws and penalties. It would increase the care and tenderness of mothers toward their children, when they were sure of a settlement for life to the poor babes, provided in some sort by the public, to their annual profit instead of expense. We should see an honest emulation among the married women, which of them could bring the fattest child to the market. Men would become as fond of their wives during the time of their pregnancy as they are now of their mares in foal, their cows in calf, their sows when they are ready to farrow; nor offer to beat or kick them (as is too frequent a practice) for fear of a miscarriage.\nSkeptical \nSkepticism:  incredulity, cynicism (although this word is a tad too extreme), empiricism, doubting until proof is offered, questioning, doubting. Philosophy that knowing anything is actual impossible, espoused (forwarded, endorsed, advocated, championed, advanced, attributed to, linked to) by Socrates. \nSkillful: (See 133, 269, 656, 662, in text): clever, adroit, dexterous, adept, practiced. DO YOU FEEL YOUR VOCABULARY SKILLS HAVE IMORIVED? \nSkills: talents, techniques, abilities, disciplines, arts, abilities acquired through training.  (In text, ad nauseam see, deft, mastery, nuanced, adroit, apt, able, keen, talented, dexterous, adept, artful, etc.)\nSkirmishes: battles, fights, combats, scuffles, conflicts\nSlander: (See 598, 644, 758, in text) verbal or oral defamation, in which one tells an untruth, or lie about someone, possibly a public figure whose reputation could be marred (stained, soiled, blemished, tarnished, tainted) whether or not the slanderous remarks were true; often confused with libel, which is the publishing of untruths in written form.\nSlight: (1282, See 97, 101, 133, 397, 616, 644, 715, 724, in text) (Two definitions): in question 103, it means mere, minor, trivial, inconsequential; OR it can be a noun that means an insult, smear, snub, or some sort of disrespect.\nSlights: (See 271, 648, 762 in text) snubs, insults, slurs, smears, scorns\nSlipshod (synonyms joe, plus explain)    \nSloth: laziness, idleness, indolence, lethargy: it is what I accuse most teachers and many students of… sloth. (To be honest, a few days of indulgent sloth in sweats on the couch watching movies in the winter is fun, but not if you’re taking the January test, or if you are teaching students and writing materials for students taking the January test.  So, I guess that means all of us will have to refrain from sloth until… well, looking at my schedule… the week after the March test, maybe? It’s so difficult for me to plan my sloth. )\nSmoggiest: haziest, cloudiest, mistiest, foggiest, dimmest\nSmug: self-satisfied, superior, complacent, conceited, arrogant\nSnug: cozy, warm, homely, comfortable, inviting. EXAMPLE: Snug as a bug in a rug, means very comfortable. \nSoft; wanton; luxurious.\nSole: (See 302, 573, in text) only, individual, single, lone, exclusive. \nSolipsistic: a philosophy that posits that only the self exists or can be assumed; or, self-absorbed, selfish, narcissistic.  If your philosophical approach to the world is based solely on your existence, you might be selfish.  \nSomber: drab, solemn, grave, melancholy, muted, subdued, gloomy, lugubrious; dark or dull in color, mood, or personal compartment.  EXAMPLE: The students so dreaded their reading assignments that there somber mood as they began their assignments would have lead an unknowing observer to believe that these young scholars appeared bereaved.  \nSome persons of a desponding spirit are in great concern about that vast number of poor people, who are aged, diseased, or maimed, and I have been desired to employ my thoughts what course may be taken to ease the nation of so grievous an encumbrance. But I am not in the least pain upon that matter, because it is very well known that they are every day dying and rotting by cold and famine, and filth and vermin, as fast as can be reasonably expected. And as to the young laborers, they are now in as hopeful a condition; they cannot get work, and consequently pine away for want of nourishment, to a degree that if at any time they are accidentally hired to common labor, they have not strength to perform it; and thus the country and themselves are happily delivered from the evils to come.\nSomeday you might be part of a Watershed Event, or be the wellspring, the person responsible for the groundbreaking ideas which when combined with the work of others left an indelible mark on this world. Or, you could make another choice.  That’s for you to decide. \nSoothed: (See 639, in text) calmed, pacified, quieted, mollified, lulled\nSophisticated\nSophisticated: cultured, chic, erudite, complex, advanced; or, knowledgeable in the ways of the world, not easily deceived: savvy.\nSounded: announced, declared, signaled, expressed, or declared. Or\nSpacious: roomy, voluminous, expansive, immense, sizable\nSpare  \nSpare No Expense\nSparse\nSparse: (339): List 3 synonyms for sparse: (1) , (2) , and (3) .   \nSparseness: bare, scanty, sparse, scarce, spare, Spartan, meager, or lacking in all embellishment, adornment, or decoration.   \nSpartan: (In text, 6, 209, 339): austere, lacking comfort, bare, harsh, rugged, ascetic. frugal, basic, meager. \nSpecies\nSpecious: false, hollow, of little value, questionable, erroneous, or likely erroneous. A specious claim is one that could be true, but is likely false to anyone who looks at the claim in a deep and meaningful way (even in a not so deep and sort of meaningless way, but in more than a shallow and gullible way.) \nSpeculation: conjecture, assumption, supposition, rumor.  CLARIFICATION: Speculation is not a theory, a hypothesis may be speculative; however, in science a theory must be well supported by experimental data and real world results, which accord with more than 97% of all results thus far recorded.  A theory in science is a fact in most of the world. \nSpeech:  (See 10, 18, 21, 105, 229, 289, 330, 426, 527, 786, in text): language, communication, formal discourse, elocution, dialogue, or patterned audible language. \nSpelling: (See 365, 590, in text) Mark Twain once protested that it is an uncreative mind that can only conceive one way to spell a word.  Mr. Twain, while a wonderful and pithy writer, was never the greatest of spellers. \nSpending: passing, using witling away, investing here TIME. (See, 721, above.)\nSpendthrift: wasteful, extravagant, prodigal, profligate, squanderer.  While John is frugal, his brother, who has never seen a dollar he could not spend, is the epitome of the spendthrift. \nSplit: (See 526, 645, 848, in text) break, cut, divide, bifurcate, branch\nSpoke: communicate with speech; or, the rods or bars connecting a wheel to an axel, which all are diameters of the wheel. \nSporadic\nSprawl: (See 751, in text) stretch, mass, spread, extend, straggle, expansion; as used in Question 92, it describes the spreading out of people from urban areas into the surrounding areas, forming an ever-widening community based around the city.\nSpurned   \nSquandered    \nSquandered Resource Story: .    \nStaff: (144): List 5 synonyms for staff: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “staff” in a sentence:  .\nStagnating: languishing, declining, deteriorating, idling, festering; ANTONYM: flourishing.\nStandpoint: position, point of view, stance, perspective, angle, opinion, outlook, or view. \nStanford: A west coast college which features top ranked science, engineering and humanities programs for undergraduates and graduates: top education, law, medicine and business programs for professional students; a vast campus more than 8000 acres in size; more NCAA sports championships than any other college in the United States; it has expanded more than any other university in the last 15 years, and is attempting still to add an east coast branch to the university, so that it might eclipse its East Coast rivals. \nStealing: pilfering, procuring, taking, thieving.  \nSteel: (365, 822, 841, See 842, in text): List three synonyms of the word “steel”: (1) , (2) , (3) .  Use all three synonyms and “steel” in one sentence below:  . \nSteeled: (365): List 3 synonyms for steeled: (1), (2), (3). Describe a time when your “mettle” was steeled by one of life’s many little crucibles:  .\nSteeling(mettle): hardening like steel, particularly—metaphorically—someone’s character: his or her: mettle: a nice metaphor, pun and use of language and refined spelling.  BTW, you all make my atrocious (horrid, terrible, awful, appalling, dreadful) spelling seem “top-notch.” We both should aspire to spell with greater aplomb. \nSteeling: (365, 822): List 4 synonyms of “steeling”: (1), (2), (3), (4). Use “steeling” in a sentence. .\nStellar: in the stars, relating to stars. OR, exceptional, amazing, brilliant, special, outstanding, incomparable, remarkable, or wonderful. \nStifle: check, repress, smother, asphyxiate, stop, hamper, impede, halt progress.\nStifled: (745, 862) Which of the following pictures expresses a meaning of the word “stifling”? \nStifling:  (745): List 5 synonyms for Stifling: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Stifling” metaphorically in a sentence or two: .\nStimulate: (See, 595, in text): rouse, arouse, motivate, inspire, encourage, fuel. \nStimulating: (743, see 595, in text): List 5 synonyms for Stimulating: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Stimulating” in a sentence: .\nStipulated\nStoic (See 955, in text) tolerant, apathetic, patient, resigned, phlegmatic, uncomplaining; exhibiting admirable patience and endurance in the face of adversity without offering complaint, comment or pleas for sympathy. EXAMPLE: After dedicating himself to a life of asceticism, the young Siddhartha became one of the most renowned and lauded of stoic philosophers: he was said to have deprived himself of sustenance for so long that he appeared little more than a shadow to a village girl who brought Siddhartha rice and milk to finally break his fast. \nStrident: loud, harsh, shrill, grating, or unpleasant, and usually unrelentingly unpleasant when presenting an opinion: Try and picture a particularly annoying political pundit/personality who possesses a polarized view of the world. vociferous, above.\nStruggle\nStruggled with\nStubbled: prickly, having stubble, or the beginning portions of a beard. USELESS WORD ALERT. WOOOOOAAAOOO! USELESS WORD ALERT. \nStubborn (See 140, 152, 348, in text) headstrong, obdurate, inflexible, obstinate, balky\nStupefied\nStylized: (See 128, 305, 314, 513 in text) unrealistic, unnatural, artificial, synthetic, quixotic\nSubject and object pronouns must be used appropriately, and can relate back to a subject, thereby making a later pronoun a subject pronoun; additionally all pronouns must agree with their antecedent in number, gender, and person. This rule also includes a prohibition on change “voice” when writing.\nSubject: (See 22, 104, 510, 614, 775, in text) topic, issue, concern, point, focus\nSubmit: yield, capitulate, surrender, succumb, present\nSubpar: below average, unsatisfactory, inferior, defective, lesser, cheap. \nSubpoenas\nSubsequent: (See 720, in text) following, succeeding, ensuing, consequent, later\nSubsidy: funding, grant, endowment, backing, support\nSubstitute\nSubterranean: (See 157, in text) underground, hidden, concealed, arcane, clandestine\nSubtle: (64, See 133, 345, 499, 964, in text) You define it:  .\nSubtle: understated, pleasantly delicate, able to make refined judgments, fine distinctions, discriminate well: “subtle intellect”; cleverly indirect, almost ingenious in that it would be difficult to detect by any save cleverest of minds. (Subtle clues are ones only Sherlock Holmes might find.) Requiring sensitivity to detect or appreciate. \nSuburban: residential, inhabited, peripheral, out-of-town, built-up\nSuccinct: (251, See 27, 227, 249, in text) Give a succinct summary of the last book you read. Write one sentence that you think sums up the entire book.  \nSuccinct: short, brief, curt, terse, concise, pithy, laconic, or economic language.  \nSuccumbed to  \nSuffocated: smothered, chocked, destroyed, stifled, quashed, checked, repressed, asphyxiated, stopped, hampered, or impeded: prevent from developing, the opposite of nurturing. ANTONYM: nurture, foster, and incubate.  \nSugar-coated: artificial, false, untruthful, deceptive, mendacious\nSuggestive: sexual, ribald, bawdy, racy, risqué, lewd\nSuperb: excellent, outstanding, wonderful, splendid, exceptional\nSuperciliousness: haughtiness, arrogance, boastfulness: full of contempt and arrogance. \nSuperficial: insincere, shallow, lacking depth, fake, surface-y, fake; only the top layer of something, like a façade, meant to deceive or which is not representative of a things true nature. \nSuperfluous: unnecessary, redundant, something or someone who has been made unnecessary because his or her skills are no longer needed or globally relevant. Excessive and unneeded, pointless decoration. \nSuperior\nSupple: agile, limber, flexible, mobile, willowy, adaptable, compliant.  Can mean soft. \nSupport (contextually): Here “support” means to be in favor of an idea or approach.  \nSupport: (65, See 73, 74, 75, 382, 446, 489, in text): List 5 synonyms for support: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “support” in a sentence:  .\nsupreme court(s)\nSusceptible to: vulnerable, liable, prone, inclined, subject\nSusceptible: (1233) Jonas Salk developed the first polio vaccine in 1957, which made it possible to inoculate, or immunize, citizens against the disease, which was claiming thousands of American lives every year and was considered the most frightening public health problem of the era following World War II. If you have received a polio vaccine, you can thank Salk for making sure you are not susceptible to the crippling disease.\nSuspect: (See 546, 554, in text) accused, defendant, offender, prisoner, respondent; OR suspicious, doubtful, uncertain, specious\nSuspected\nSuspended: postponed, deferred, adjourned, delayed, shelved\nSustain\nSustain: (See 1006 1360, in text) maintain, continue, carry on, retain, prolong: EXAMPLES: Often, people cannot sustain their concentration for any significant length of time.  Sustained effort for 2-3 hours a day, every day, for 6-8 weeks is required for someone to fully understand and integrate new ideas and new knowledge into his or her core knowledge base. Sustainable growth and sustainable energy are two hot topics in the environmental or green movement: both topics relate to the use of resources which are themselves renewable and which do not cause irreparable damage to an ecosystem, habitat or life on Earth more generally. \nSustained: (1522, See 1006 1360, in text) Use the word “sustained” in a sentence below: \nSwindle\nSyllabus: programmatic, course of study, curriculum \nSympathy\nSymposium\nSyncopated\nSyndicated:  distributed through affiliate, or companies who do not own the product being distributed (usually newspapers); organized into a criminal enterprise; news business that sells print news; council or body in a government.  \nSyndicated: (915) Use “syndicated” in a sentence which shows your understanding of both meanings of the word: .\nSynonyms and Migration of Meaning\nTaciturn: reticent, reserved, silent, secretive, or closed off/not open in expressing one’s feelings and thoughts—by nature.\nTaciturn: You define it.  ,\nTales: Bear: (One’s name, context):\nTalon: 	claw of a bird; hook, spur, pincer. \nTame\nTangible\nTantamount: (See 1091, in text) equivalent, synonymous, identical, indistinguishable, equal; Galileo’s conception of the heliocentric solar system was inconsistent with Church doctrine, so Galileo’s revelation of his findings was considered tantamount to heresy, or spreading false teachings about religious issues, once a gravely serious offense which has been punishable by several manners of capital punishment (the death penalty). \nTar Sands: Tar sands, or oil sands, are loose sand that is saturated with a very dense, partially solid, form of petroleum called bitumen, which is often referred to as tar because of its similar color and odor, and which is so viscous that it needs to be heated in order to flow and be pumped. Canada is the only country that has a large-scale oil sands industry, which is good because extraction and refinement of this form of petroleum puts out 12% more greenhouse gases than those of conventional petroleum. \nTariff: tax, duty, toll, excise, levy, charge: See above if you are still unsure what a tariff is. \nTarnished\nTasteful: sophisticated, refined, stylish, classy, elegant \nTawdry: (1185) You define it:  .\nTawdry: cheap, tacky, or tasteless; gaudy, flashy, showy, garish, flamboyant, such as jewelry worn on a certain island/garbage dump in New York.\nTechniques: methods, procedures, practices, processes, or systems. A skillful or skilled process. \nTechnological: Describe the technological advancement you find most impressive, explain why you find it so visionary and revolutionary? \nTedious: (1371, See 80, 842, 1364, in text) This is not the first time you’ve defined a word like this, and it won’t be the last; this may get repetitive to the point of being boring, but define this word: \nTedious: (See 80, 842, 1364, in text) mind-numbing, wearisome, insipid, repetitive, dull\nTemper\nTemperance: (176, 462, See 209, in text) The temperance movement, which gave rise to Prohibition, was a period marked by criticism of drinking alcohol, especially in excess, and urging for reform of legislation to help curtail or eliminate alcohol consumption altogether.\nTemperance: moderation in all things, abstinence, sobriety, abstemiousness (this word used to show up a lot, it means temperance.)  Buddhist monks, who are not complete ascetics, practice temperance rather than complete privation of the body.  Privation means to deprive or starve. Ascetics are people who deprive the body and live hard lives in order to find spiritual and mental calm, peace, oneness with the universe. \nTemperate\nTempered by: toned down by, moderated by, mitigated by, also means to be toughened by as in the process of heating and cooling steel to add strength or toughness\nTemporality: (See 398, 407, in text) secular, worldly, profane, terrestrial, mundane: or, connected to time or the flow of time. EXAMPLE: Aware of the inherent temporality and limitedness of every life, Jason, Stacy and Julius attempted to savor every moment of their lives spent together and apart. \nTemporize: (1679, See 398, 407, in text): also, to use delaying tactics to gain time, especially in order to avoid coming to a decision or committing yourself. (NOTE: Can mean to temporarily adopt a course of action.)  Attempt to use “temporize”’s first definition--listed above--in a sentence which also uses the word “temporize”: EXAMPLE: The court case led to an unjust result because counsel for both parties colluded in secret and deceived the aggrieved party by temporizing until a statute of limitations had been missed, and any opportunity to serve justice had been lost.   \nTense must agree, including keeping literature in the present, feelings that are ongoing in the present, and tense in a sentence, paragraph or other related sets of clauses can only make logical jumps in time.  (Take one step at time when changing tense.)\nTentative: hesitant, timid, cautiously proceeding, uncertain, diffident; lacking confidence, diffidence is the opposite of confidence. Or rough, provisional: tentative draft.  \nTenure: You define it.  .\nTenured: an academic appointment which once granted insulates a teacher/professor from being fired for almost any act.  The idea behind tenure is that it is supposed to support intellectual freedom and independence; professors or teachers cannot be fired for promoting unpopular ideas. It is meant to promote intellectual freedom, and intellectual honesty.\nTermination:  dismissal, firing, end, close, finish\nTerrain: land, topography (the rising and falling—mountains and valleys—across large land masses). \nTerrible\nTerse: curt, concise, succinct, brief, short, laconic, economic speech/language. These words should seem familiar.  \nTerse: curt, laconic, short, concise, brief, succinct, laconic: abrupt, short, curt, or sharp language which expresses annoyance, or impatience.  Concise or economic/efficient use of language. \nTerse: List 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5). Write an email to your teacher who gave you this assignment in terse, economic, and/or laconic prose.  If the note is incisive and, perhaps even trenchantly critical, all the better. .\nTestimony: statement, declaration, assertion, allegation, claim, deposition: Sometimes people offer testimonials as well, generally a testimonial or any testimony offered is thought to be a true statement, something someone would swear by.  Whether or not that is true is another matter altogether. Some people are like the old man, and others are more like the scorpion. \nTextiles: fabrics, cloths, materials, knits, weaves: Contextually, the word “textiles” is usually used only when one is talking about the sale or trade of large quantities of cloth or fabric through commerce, or large commercial transactions.  People do not buy textiles at the mall or in The GAP. \nThe Age of Enlightenment or The Enlightenment: Most trace the Enlightenment thinking back to around 1630 with the writing of Descartes, who is one of the philosopher’s pictured above.  The line of thinking included Democratic-Republican ideas of  Rousseau, John Locke, Voltaire, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, Immanuel Kant and other thinkers from the 1600s, 1700s and early 1800s.  Most believe the Enlightenment ended with the end of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars/U.S. War of 1812.  These wars culminated in approximately 1815, and subsequently the Enlightenment’s ideas lost popularity among intellectuals to the ideas of Romanticism and worship of the cults of heroes and great men. \nThe answer to the above question is an important one, and we at Focused would prefer a choice that did not encourage our children, your children, and your children’s children to take a lackluster, indeed woefully uninspired view of education, the future, and life in general. After all, does a little boy who loves “Jazz Hands” at only 1 year and 1 month deserve an education that is anything but visionary AND inspirational?  \nThe Bay Area: (FIX CAPITALIZATION IN QUESTION): Area on the west coast of the United States featuring the cities of San Francisco, Oakland, Palo Alto, Stanford, and the county of Santa Clara; also includes, Napa and Sonoma Valleys, wine country in California.  The Bay Area is where Silicon Valley is located; it is a technological, educational and financial hub of the United States. \nTHE BLIND AND THE LAME\nThe Discipline: use of “the” in front of words like “discipline,” “craft,” “arts,” etc. emphasize the importance of the art form or discipline in the mind of the speaker.  Here, “the discipline” is dance.  Tonally, calling dance “the discipline” implies that the speaker is imparting to dance a reverence normally associated with a divinity, religion, or nation. \n\nThe Environmentalist: The formal scientific definition of theory is quite different from the everyday meaning of the word. It refers to a comprehensive explanation of some aspect of nature that is supported by a vast body of evidence. Many scientific theories are so well established that no new evidence is likely to alter them substantially. For example, no new evidence will demonstrate that the Earth does not orbit around the sun (heliocentric theory), or that living things are not made of cells (cell theory), that matter is not composed of atoms, or that the surface of the Earth is not divided into solid plates that have moved over geological timescales (the theory of plate tectonics)...One of the most useful properties of scientific theories is that they can be used to make predictions about natural events or phenomena that have not yet been observed.\nThe Great Wall of China\nThe Phoenix: In Greek Mythology, the Phoenix is a bird that cyclically dies and regenerates; the successor rises from the ashes of the previous Phoenix, which is often killed by fire in most retellings of the legend. The Phoenix is a common metaphor for rebirth or resurgence, used to describe anything that either dies or is defeated before making a triumphant return to glory. \nThe Seattle Space Needle (picture too)\nTheocratic: ruled by religious philosophies, rules and precepts (rules, basically.)   Community governed by priests, religious leaders or a “god.”\nTheoretically: (See 126, 492, 1010, in text) hypothetically, supposedly, tentatively, notionally, speculatively\nTheorist: philosopher, speculator, scientist, academic, thinker, logician, mathematician. \nTheory (take time with this and hypothesis: use graphs)\nTheory: (See 1010, in text): thesis, supposition, speculation, proposition, assumption: While in colloquial speech and in common parlance, a “theory” is more or less the same thing as a hypothesis, the actual definition of a theory \nThereby: thus, so, by that means, as a result that, \nThird-World: originally, the term “The Third World” referred to any country not aligned with the United States or the Soviet Union, during the Cold War era.  Countries included African, South and Central American nations, and most of Southeast Asia and India.  “Third World” also refers often to nations that are not industrialized, suffer from extreme poverty across large swaths (bands, strips, portions) of their populations and regions. \nThoroughness\nThrift: (1146, See 274, 738, in text) the virtue of frugality, or careful spending; looking for free or low-cost solutions; the quality of being tightfisted.\nThrifty: (See 274, 738, in text) frugal, prudent, parsimonious, sparing, penny-pinching. \nTibetan priests (BUDDHISM HISTORY): \nTierra Del Fuego\nTightfisted: (274,  282, 293, 301, See 307, in text) Below is a picture which is a literal representation of this word. When you think of tightfisted, think of a miser, or spendthrift, clenching his money, unable to part with any of his wealth.\nTightfisted: cheap, penny-pinching, miserly, stingy, parsimonious, thrifty. \nTightfisted: You define it.  .\nTightfisted: You define it.  .\nTightfisted: You define it.  , \nTightlipped: silent, secretive, reserved, reticent, taciturn. Tightlipped implies that one refuses to speak to protect co-conspirators in some nefarious scheme. Tight-lipped means that a person will keep a secret for the good of the people involved in the act to be kept secret, regardless of whether the act itself is good or bad.  The connotation is contextual. \nTightlipped: You define it.  ,\nTightlipped: You define it.  .\nTightlipped: You define it.  .\nTime served: this refers to the period of time spent in incarceration (in custody) while a suspect is awaiting the conclusion of their trial and sentencing. When a perpetrator (criminal, one who has committed an act or offense) is given “time served” as a sentence, he is usually immediately set free, since the time he spent awaiting the results was seen as suitable, or apt, punishment.\nTimeliness: properness, opportunity, seasonableness, well-timed\nTimetable: schedule, agenda, program, calendar, plan\nTimid: (965, See 77, 149, 181, 322, 640, in text) List at least 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).... Use “timid” in a sentence: . \nTimid: (See 77, 149, 181, 322, 640, in text): shy, hesitant, not assertive, nor aggressive, reserved, diffident, taciturn. \nTimidity: (965, 1138, 1210, See 77, 149, 181, 322, 640, in text) Students often approach tests with great timidity, but it is important to be confident in your knowledge in order to perform at your best. Write a mantra, a phrase that you can repeat to help you stabilize yourself or assuage your fears, which you can recite to calm yourself down and instill yourself with a feeling of security.\nTimidity: (965, 1138, See 77, 149, 181, 322, 640, in text) What was the last situation you approached with timidity? How did you or how might you overcome your apprehension (uneasiness, anxiety, worry) to become confident in your ability to do the same thing in the future?  .\nTimorous: (640) You define it:  .\nTimorousness: nervousness, shyness, timid, hesitant, ≈ taciturn. \nTirade\nTiresome: (See 441, 633, in text) tedious, wearisome, dull, boring, insipid. \nTitillating: (Lure: Title): arousing, exciting, tantalizing, stimulating, fascinating	\nToils: drudgery, work, labor, tedium, grind.\nTolerate: bear, endure, stomach, abide, stand. \nTolerated: (239, 367, 453, See 368, in text):  List at least 3 synonyms and 3 antonyms for the word “tolerated”: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5),  (6), (7).  \nTolerated: endured, took or accepted even though unpleasant for a period of time, ≈ condoned. \nTolerating:  bearing, accepting, suffering, enduring, accepting, putting up with, but not in any way enjoying it: watch out here for using suffering: I can suffer through something, suffer dealing with fools, but the word doesn’t mean SUFFER, in its usual—pain, agony, torture—context.  \nTone (include literary discussion) \nTones \nTook Root: grow, become established, gain in strength of popularity, find a home: usually of a movement or an idea. EXAMPLE: Communism took root in Cuba and then grew like a malevolent weed under through the middle of the 20th century. \nTorporific: lacking mental or physical energy, or alertness, bored or near dormant. Soporific on the other hand is sleep inducing. \nTorrent\nTotalitarian: authoritarian, dictatorial, autocratic, ≈ and usually, tyrannical, tyrannous, and/or despotic. For the ruler alone, dictator, autocrat, tyrant, despot.  \nTourism: \nTowering (edifices) \nTraditions: practices or customs that are considered normal, mores (pronounced moh-Rays, it means societal trends); as used in Question 47, it refers almost to a genre, or type, of art, basically a set of common techniques, themes, or rules.\nTranscended\nTrans-oceanic current patterns: ADD PICTURES!!!\nTransparent: (See 486, 1205, in text) see-through, translucent, obvious, apparent, visible, blatant\nTreacherous: (See 428, in text) dangerous, precarious, risky, dicey, chancy\nTreasure trove: a collection of valuable items; in context, a great find or store of valuable knowledge, or some other metaphoric treasure.  \nTreatable with: (See 40, in text) curable, remediable, correctable, mendable, improvable\nTrembling\nTriathlon: Triathlons are modern sporting events that combine swimming, bicycling and running.  The most famous triathlon is the Ironman in Hawaii.  The Ironman Triathlon begins with a 2.5 miles ocean swim, followed by a 112 mile bicycle ride over mountainous terrain, and then is capped with a full 26.2 mile marathon.  The events take the best athletes today approximately 8 hours to complete.  In the Ironman’s first running it was completed in approximately 11 hours.  Below is a picture from the first Ironman Triathlon, which took place on Oahu. (The race later moved to the island of Hawaii.) \nTrick\nTrickle\nTriumphed over  \nTrivial: (See 286, 383, 405, 1502, in text) unimportant, small, inconsequential, minor, petty, insignificant\nTropics: hot climate, often containing jungles, islands with palm trees, etc.  \nTroubling: (See 84, 371, 585, in text) worrying, disturbing, disconcerting, disquieting, agitating\nTrusting\nTumultuous: clamorous, uproarious, ≈ vociferous noisy unrestrained excitement, often confused or agitated, like a mob, but can be happy. \nVociferous (shouting noisily, a determined shout or yell.) \n.\nType writer, telephone, steel train, camera, power station (here hydroelectric), induction motor (which powers the Tesla Motors Electric car today, some 120 years after its invention); the electric light bulb; combustion engine and automobile (electric, combustion, and steam); motion pictures or movies; the radio, multiple shot revolver; machine gun; telegraph; wireless electrical transmission; florescent lighting; carbon steel; the first rocket; the first submarine, the first computer program (by Ada Byron Lovelace) and the first analytical engine (computer, by Charles Babbage in 1822, designs were taken and built in 2002 to prove the engine worked, and Per Georg Scheutz in 1830s Germany), the pulse jet in 1864, and many more astounding inventions.  Few if any advancements did not find their roots in technology and innovation from the 19th century. \nTyrannical: despot rule, rule by a bad dictator (as opposed to a benevolent dictator, which would be kind of awesome), using power over someone in a ruthless, heartless, or intentionally cruel manner.  Unjust rule, through fear and violence.  You saw this word before above, in association with Totalitarian.\nUbiquitous: omnipresent, universal, global, pervasive, permeating; occurring everywhere. \nUnassailable:  incontrovertible, unquestionable,  impregnable, undisputable, indisputable, undeniable, incontestable.\nUnbecoming: unseemly, unfitting, inappropriate, inapt, in apropos, untoward, unsightly.  Basically, anything you would not want your parents seeing or knowing about, that would be something unbecoming. (If you haven’t noticed, these words have been grouped in terms of meaning and association.)\nUnbiased: impartial, balanced, neutral, unprejudiced, fair, evenhanded\nUncanny: weird, spooky, unsettling, strange, freakish, abnormal, bizarre: strange or mysterious, esp. in an unsettling way. EXAMPLE: In my youth, the word uncanny was most strongly associated with my love of comic books, as one of my favorite titles was The Uncanny X-Men: a group of superheroes whose abilities and personal plights were both abnormal and unsettling. \nUncertainty: indecision, doubt, ambiguity; unpredictable, not guarantee-able. \nUncomfortable: (See 218, 1474, 1480, in text) difficult, awkward, strained, disagreeable, confining: causing physical or emotional distress, annoyance or disquiet.\nUncultured: (See 967, in text) boorish, unsophisticated, uncivilized, coarse, philistine\nUnderappreciated\nUnderhanded: sneaky, devious, deceitful: done secretively and dishonestly by someone trying to deceive or cheat you. Dishonestly done for personal gain or other manipulative purpose. \nUnderhanded: You define it.  ,\nUnderhanded: You define it.  ,\nUnderhanded: You define it.  ,\nUndermined: (271, 279, 290, 311, See 343, 715, 741, 857, in text) List at least 3 synonyms: (1), (2), (3). Use “undermine” in a sentence: . \nUndermined: destabilize, weaken, challenge, subvert; weaken or wear away slowly; damage confidence through repeated slights; subvert or erode through malicious often covert slights. \nUndermined: You define it.  ,\nUndermined: You define it.  ,\nUndermined: You define it.  ,\nUndermining: (271, 279, 290, 311, 992, See 343, 715, 741, 857, in text) John’s mother has told him not to play baseball in the house. Below is John’s father undermining his wife’s request.\nUnderscored: (272, 280, 291, 308, See 338, 566, in text) List 5 synonyms: (1), (2), (3), (4), (5).  Use “Underscore” in a sentence: .\nUnderscored: underline, emphasize, highlight, draw attention to; draw a line beneath; [ignore the following, almost in total: place background music to, “score” (a musical piece) something, subtly—uncommon.] \nUnderscored: You define it.  ,\nUnderscored: You define it.  .\nUnderscored: You define it.  ,\nUnderstandable: (See 5, 29, 88, 123, 126, 220, 295, 423, 484, 486, 490, 510, 637, 653, 657, 712, 714, in text) comprehensible, logical, reasonable, plausible, explicable.  We and I hope the above was understandable.  I—Jason—am making every effort to include as much history, philosophy, culture, and related erudition in this little companion piece.  The goal is to let you understand and appreciate the world in which you all live.  As a student wrote to me today: \nUndeserved: unwarranted, unmerited, unearned.\nUnearthed: remove from the ground, uncovered, discovered, found but usually after a long period of time and with great effort.  Discover something hidden for a long time.  \nUnencumbered: unfettered, unburdened, unweighted, and carrying no weight, light; or, creative, light of spirit.  \nUnequivocal: You define it.  .\nUnequivocating: unwavering, candid, direct, clearly and unambiguously stating a point.  \nUneventful: unexciting, uninteresting, monotonous, boring, insipid, unvaried, mundane\nUnfathomable:  (See 5, in text) incomprehensible, enigmatic, indecipherable, obscure, inscrutable. EXAMPLE: It is equally as unfathomable that students today learn no grammar whatsoever in public schools, as it is incomprehensible that students from the last century were asked to learn 2350 pages of grammar rules alone. \nUnfortunate: (704, See 706, in text) List 3 antonyms: (1),\nUnfortunate: having bad luck; unlucky, unsuccessful, untalented; euphemistically (if someone says “unfortunate” as a nice way of saying something else much worse) unfortunate means that a person’s “luck,” “personality,” or “success”—all of which are undesirable—were actually the person’s fault, or the result of an unchangeable personality fault in the individual.  EXAMPLE: The scientist was brilliant, but his unfortunate personality made him difficult to work with and destined most of his best and most innovative ideas to obscurity, as no one would work on projects with him.  \nUnhinged: deranged, unbalanced, disturbed, crazy, bipolar, or just plain nuts. If someone becomes unhinged, he or she is not likely to look very “kempt” (unkempt:  disheveled, frazzled, frayed, rumpled, disarrayed).  \nUnhinging: (830): \nUnique\nUniqueness (clothing, style) \nUnit: 	measure, group, or fighting group. \nUnity: (See 488, in text) agreement, harmony, accord, unison, concord\nUnmatched: supreme, unparalleled, unsurpassed, matchless, incomparable, unrivaled, not replicated by any others         ≈ consummate: a word to describe one who perfectly embodies a particular trait or is an outstanding example of a particular type of person, such as: a consummate professional or a consummate gentleman.\nUnmatched: unrivaled, supreme, matchless, without equals, unparalleled, consummate.\nUnmitigated: (68): \nUnmitigated: unaltered, not lessened in anyway, offering something in its purest, often most offensive form. Common usage: unmitigated gall (unbelievable level of nerve, gumption, cajones…) \nUnofficially: unconfirmed, unauthenticated, uncorroborated, unsubstantiated, provisional\nUnqualified: quack, untrained, inexperienced, unsuitable, unable, incompetent\nUnrecognizable: (See 312, in text) distorted, unnatural, unidentifiable, unknowable, beyond recognition\nUnrelated: unconnected, distinct, dissimilar, discrete, separated, isolated, skew, tangent, irrelevant, having no visible connection or association. \nUnrivaled: (465, See 459, 504, in text) \nUnrivaled: unmatched,  unparalleled, without peers or equals.\nUnsanitary: unhygienic, dirty, contaminated, unhealthy, septic\nUnscalable (sp???)\nUnsolicited: unwanted, unrequested, undesired; ANTONYM solicited: requested, sold, advertised, lobbied for, petitioned for.  A salesman solicits business.  \nUnsubstantiated\nUntenable: indefensible, unsustainable, weak, unjustifiable, flimsy\nUntried (racehorse in context—athlete, etc)\nUse subject and object pronouns correctly, and watch out for inverted subjects and objects. (We simplified this rule to avoid using the terms nominative case and relative case.  The two cases simply mean a noun functioning like a subject, and a noun relating back to another noun. All you really have to do is figure out what the subject and verb of the sentences are and these rules unite into one simple rule).\nUsurp: (See 832, in text) seize, assume, take over, commandeer, wrest, unseat. Seized or occupied and enjoyed by violence, or without right. (Thank you again, Mr. Webster.)\nUtensils: tools, containers, implements, forks, knives, chopsticks, or items used in the kitchen, usually associated with food. \nUtility\nUtilize: (See, 524, in text): use, exploit. \nUtter: (See 106, 1203, in text) complete, total, absolute, downright, sheer; or to speak: offer an utterance; \nUtterly\nVacuous\nVagaries: unpredictable unexpected change, action or idea; changing ones ideas and actions on a whim can lead to all sorts of vagaries in life. If one is lucky, those vagaries will all have a whimsical character, and hearty laughter will be had by all.  Similarly, following the rules of an eccentric (unconventional, often slightly strange, or aberrant: think: crazy cat lady—person, say like an ill-informed English teacher can lead one to experience all sorts of academic, literary, grammatical, ungrammatical and often “malapropian” vagaries caused by eccentricities.)\nVariegated: a patchwork pattern in different colors; \nVariety\nVast: (See 393, 513, 750, in text) massive, huge, enormous, immense, prodigious\nVehemence: forcefulness, intensity, fervor, ardor, keenness; vehement is often used as an answer to SAT reading questions about tone. Along with ardent, zealous, and emphatic, vehement can describe the tone of passages in which the author or someone else strongly believes in what he is saying and makes his point by using language that shows emphasis, which can be accomplished by using hyperbolic or superlative (-est or –er words that show comparison) adjectives and adverbs (end in –ly) like greatest, most, extremely\nVenerable: (1663): List three (3) synonyms and (2) antonyms for the word “venerable” :\nVenerable: revered, honored, august, esteemed, admired: EXAMPLE: Almost all innovative scientific and cultural thinkers are called heretics by the more venerable members of the culture or community. \nVenerated: revered, adored, worshiped, hallowed, vaunted, esteemed\nVeritable  \nVeritable: actual, real, genuine, authentic, true. Veritable is used, generally, to emphasize a “figurative concept.” In this sentence, Martha Graham’s knowledge is a “veritable” treasure trove, as her knowledge is not actually a pot of leprechaun’s of gold at the end of rainbow, pirate’s gold, or some similar “trove” of actual treasure. It is metaphoric treasure, and so veritable works to emphasize the value of that “virtual”/metaphoric treasure. \nVersatile: multipurpose, adaptable, multifaceted, flexible, resourceful\nVessels: boat, ship, craft, watercraft\nViability: feasibility, practicality, capability, sustainability, attainability\nVicious: (See 644, 652, in text) spiteful, malicious, rancorous, remorseless, brutish\nVilified \nVindicated\nVindicated: made right, corrected; cleared of blame, exonerated.\nVindicating: (548, See 131, 232, 356, in text) Do you remember the last time you were falsely accused of a transgression (wrongdoing, sin, offense)? Were you vindicated, or did you suffer the repercussions for a crime you didn’t commit? If you were excused, or cleared of guilt, draw your expression of relief when you found out you were free to go.\nVintage (clothing, style)\nViolate: disrupt, interrupt, damage, infringe, deface: to break, transgress, or infringe. To injure; to hurt; to interrupt; to disturb; as, to violate sleep.  To break; to infringe; to transgress; EXAMPLES: as, to violate the laws of the state, or the rules of good breeding; to violate the divine commands; to violate one's vows or promises. Promises and commands may be violated negatively, by non-observance. Or, To injure; to do violence to. Or. To treat with irreverence; to profane. (Again, a thank you Mr. Webster, and your 1828 lexicon.)\nViolent\nVirtue: principle, ideal, feature, quality, character\nVisceral: palpable, intuitive, instinctive, something felt in the “gut” at an animal or instinctual level: passionate, primal, animalistic feelings, impulses, drives and instincts. \nVisionary: (29, See 28, 35, 336, 361, 730, 737, 748, 779, 844, in text): List two (2) synonyms and three (3) antonyms for the word “visionary”: Synonyms: (1) , (2) . Antonyms: (1) , (2) , (3) . \nVisionary: inspired, imaginative, creative, inventive, ingenious, enterprising, innovative characterized by unusually acute (accurate and incisive, sharp, to the point) foresight (seeing the future well, or planning amazingly well, as the future unfolds just as the planning outlined and the visionary planner predicted.) A tertiary (third) definition of visionary is someone who has visions, or who is dreamy or impractical.  This is not the way the word is generally used when someone says something like: Steve Jobs was the visionary computer programmer who changed the world with incredible foresight regarding and understanding of both how consumer preferences would evolve, and how technology would and should best evolve along with those preferences. \nVisual art: forms of art such as paintings, photographs, and sculptures that are intended to be looked at; generally any art in which the image, colors, and arrangement are the primary or sole form of communication with an observer (basically not music or literature).\nVital:  energetic, vigorous, full of life, vivacious, in some contexts essential, or necessary.   \nVital: (32, See 113, 124, 135, 220, 655, in text):  List at least 2 synonyms and 2 antonyms for the word “vital”: \nVitality\nVivid: (1051) Some people have dreams so vivid that they almost seem like they are really happening. Draw something that you saw clearly in a dream, and be sure to include specific details that you can remember.\nVocabulary: (See 27, 59, 88, 96, 144, 502, 513, 655, 708, 714, 787 in text) lexis, terminology, lexicon, vernacular, lingo: Do you just love vocabulary now? \nVoice/ Voicing: To make publically known a point of view in context.  \nVoluminous: (See 1364, in text) capacious, roomy, ample, bulky, extensive\nVulnerable: (See 681, in text) susceptible, prone, weak or open to infection or damage; \nWailed: cried out, howled, moaned, or yowled: sad often mournful groaning, howling or moaning: people wail for the loss of a loved one; great blues singers are said to “wail” when they sing the blues. \nWaning: (See 50, 784, in text): reducing, lessening, fading, dwindling, shrinking, declining, weakening, decreasing, or disappearing \nWard: area, zone, region, division, as in an area of a hospital which deals with only one particular type of patient; OR a person or thing that is being guarded; OR a person or group that is in charge of guarding something else, such as Dick Grayson (aka Robin), one of the guardians of Gotham City, who was aptly played by Burt Ward on the original Batman television series.\nWarranted\nWary: (See 30, 322, in text) cautious, suspicious, circumspect, chary, heedful EXAMPLE: One should be wary of any reading assignments containing large amounts of vocabulary which he does not know, as comprehension is almost directly related to one’s vocabulary. \nWasting: losing money, weight, time, energy, anything really, and for the loss to be for no real purpose, and sort of a tragedy.  Right now I am discussing the, well, tragedy associated with students being forced to learn information, even at the finest institutions in the nation and the world, which is pathologically incorrect, and which anyone with an iPhone could prove incorrect.  Here I am speaking directly about chemistry, and ionic and covalent bonds: I offer a $100 bounty for anyone who can explain the structural and physical difference between these two types of bonds, and if you use the words SHARING, GIVING, or TAKING in relation to electrons, then you owe me $1000, assuming you take the bet.  There is a long story behind this one which I will likely write in a book someday. For now, suffice it to say, electrons cannot be shared, given or taken as they are quasi-matter, move at or near the speed of light, behave occasionally in ways that defy our natural laws and are not passed like Christmas presents between positively charged atomic nuclei.  I really want a practical difference, as no rule seems to hold for either all the time.  Any help appreciated, but be careful if you are considering taking the bet.   \nWaxed: name three things that can “Wax”:(1), (2), (3). Now, describe how and why these three things “Wax” and perhaps even wane: \nWaxing: \nWeakened by: (See 50, 271, 608, 741, 824, 900, 989, in text) debilitated, enfeebled, deteriorated, enervated, crippled\nWell-being: good health, good fortune, a person’s physical, economic, and social health or security.\nWellbeing: happiness, comfort, healthiness, welfare, safety\nWell-known (Check Question Carefully): (See 120, in text): common, culturally relevant, existing in the common body of knowledge, renown, famous, celebrated, eminent, recognized. \nWell-known: (956, See 120, in text): List five (5) synonyms for “well-known”: (1) , (2), (3), (4), (5).  \nWell-regarded: esteemed, respected, valued, honored, admired, venerated, beloved\nWetlands: swamp, marsh, mire, bog, everglade, quagmire, fens, or bayou. \nWhims: (See 101, 659, in text, 97 as whimsy) impulses, urges, notions, fancies, inclinations\nWhimsy: being slightly odd or playfully humorous, but usually in an endearing (lovable) way.  This whole set of definitions and Focused Coaching’s materials in general have a tone that is, quite often, whimsical. Whimsical appears in tone questions all the time.  Rarely is there a whimsical tone in a passage that you will read on a formal exam. However, reading whimsical works, at least to me, is really fun.  Think about when Jules appears in the instruction, or about when there is a baby ninja throwing shuriken’s at answer choices (see explanation to question 2 above); those pictures and that attitude embodies (perfectly exemplifies or is the living, breathing example of) whimsy. \n\nWildness: (See 88, 476, in text) craziness, madness, rowdiness, undisciplined, uncontrolled\nWilliam Barclay (STAMP COLLECTOR)\nWistful (2): deep in sad thoughts, yearning, or longing for something lost from the past. It is nostalgia with lots of sadness added. This word is very useful when describing tone.  Remember it!!!\nWistful: \nWistful: \nWistfully (2):  \nWizened: wrinkled, shriveled, or dried-up: wise people look wise because they are old and WRINKLED.	 \nWonder:  miracle, phenomenon, marvel, sensational, amazing, awe inspiring. EXAMPLE: It would be a wonder if you used this entire workbook and companion to so increase your vocabulary and reading ability that you actually understood, appreciated, and enjoyed taking an SAT and earning an 800 on the entire critical reading section of the test. WONDEROUS! I say. Wondrous.\nWorded (firmly in context) \nWork: (See 133, 221, 316, 335, 458, 571, 572, 581, 611, 612, 616, 751, in text) composition, piece, creation, opus, oeuvre: EXAMPLE: To those who believe and embrace the use of their minds, thought, productive labor and all things one usually would consider work seem like the most pleasurable of distractions in the world, save perhaps one’s own children.  Although, one’s own children and the creations brought about via his work are not so different in character or their genetic closeness to a man’s soul.  \nWorld-weary: cynical, jaded, discontent, almost ≈ curmudgeonly:   tired of or bored with life or of the drudgery of some of the more petty, trivial, and unproductive human relationships that can exist—think about living in a reality TV show. \nWorn on… OR Wear on: verb referring to time elapsing, often indicating that the passage of time felt slow or took a long time.\nWrested control: (wrest): to take control or power against opposition and resistance.  To forcefully take something or pull something from someone. Seize. \nZoning Committee: an elected or appointed government board that recommends boundaries for various zoning districts (commercial, or business, zones and residential, or living, zones) and decide the regulations that will govern erecting and operating buildings in those zones. The committee must try to plan communities carefully by taking into account the rate of traffic through certain areas of town and the convenience and safety of the residents, making sure to keep business interests from interfering with the wellbeing of those in the neighborhood.\n￼ Not all entrepreneurs are visionaries, but some are: Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, Nikola Tesla, Ben Franklin, Meryl Stearns, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, Sergei Brin, there are lots of others.  The good ones are visionaries, the rest are making a living and don’t like other people’s rules. \n￼ The majority of the diction errors listed were taken from the Focused Coaching Class Binder 6th Edition, Class 9A, Extra Grammar, pp. 319-321.\n￼ Kids attempting to dodge learning vocabulary often ask if “learning roots” could offer them a shortcut around actually learning what words mean.  In this instance, both words come from the same Indo-European root, Pondus, meaning weight—thinks “pound.” Somewhere around 1500, however, the two words finally split, and  Ponderous kept only the heavy/clumsy/unwieldy/slow labored—dim/dull—speech meaning—as an adjective, while Ponder took on a far less pejorative (expressing criticism)—most would even say a positive (Ant. pejorative) meaning: prudent, careful, prior, deliberate consideration of an potential event or action.  NOTE ALL OF THE PICTURES ARE PONDEROUS AS ALL LOOK SLOW, DIM WITTED, and UNGAINLY.  Of note, only the ape looks like he is pondering something. \n￼ Here, the “By” in the beginning of the sentence necessitates the use of “had been” rather than was, because the ratification had been completed by the date. Also of note, the passing of the Bill of Rights was the only reason a number of other states ratified the Constitution.  Rhode Island’s final ratification occurred because of political, economic, and military “pressure” exerted by the other 12 states, and foreign powers.  \n￼ In grammar, when something “conditional” but hasn’t or will never happen (subjunctive), you should use a plural verb, regardless of whether or not the noun/subject is plural.  This rule is a little weak in modern grammar; however, if the subject and verb were inverted, then only the plural verb can be used. EXAMPLE: Were I to have worked at the firm in the 1980s, I would have made an enormous amount of money.  NOT INVERTED: If I were to have worked at the firm in the 1980s, I would have made an enormous amount of money. \n￼ Of note, if any of you use the Microsoft synonym finder (right click on a word and hit synonym) the word visionary ’s synonyms are unrealistic, impracticable, and quixotic. These are not the appropriate synonyms.  The best first synonyms of visionary as offered by Google, rather than Microsoft are: thinking about or planning the future with imagination or wisdom: "a visionary leader" synonyms: inspired, imaginative, creative, inventive, ingenious, enterprising, innovative.  If visionary refers to a person, Google says that that person has “original ideas about what the future will or could be like.” I add this aside just to mark that different cultures have different interpretations, or apply a different tone to a word.  I know that it’s unfair to you guys, but it does give you all a heads up on how to pick a job, if offered one by Microsoft and Google. Staid curmudgeons, hanging onto the past or optimistic, creative people with remarkably acute foresight…"


And everything was going well, everything's on track,
And that was to turn out their final and fatal stop.
And though warned by the lame man, he plowed into a tree.Calculating
Called for open reproaches. Said the fox: "Your great vice 
Infant's flesh will be in season throughout the year, but more plentiful in March, and a little before and after; for we are told by a grave author, an eminent French physician, that fish being a prolific diet, there are more children born in Roman Catholic countries about nine months after Lent than at any other season; therefore, reckoning a year after Lent, the markets will be more glutted than usual, because the number of popish infants is at least three to one in this kingdom: and therefore it will have one other collateral advantage, by lessening the number of papists among us.
Is that you're too kind, too gracious, excessively nice."
Many other advantages might be enumerated. For instance, the addition of some thousand carcasses in our exportation of barreled beef, the propagation of swine's flesh, and improvement in the art of making good bacon, so much wanted among us by the great destruction of pigs, too frequent at our tables; which are no way comparable in taste or magnificence to a well-grown, fat, yearling child, which roasted whole will make a considerable figure at a lord mayor's feast or any other public entertainment. But this and many others I omit, being studious of brevity.
Secluding
Secondly, The poorer tenants will have something valuable of their own, which by law may be made liable to distress and help to pay their landlord's rent, their corn and cattle being already seized, and money a thing unknown.